{{Character


Nira Dorn is the third child and second daughter of Lord Eddran Dorn and his wife, Lady Sera Dorn. She is the sister of the incumbent Valdrosi monarchs, Lysa, Queen in the North, and Renndon, King of the Andals and the First Men.

After narrowly escaping the persecution of House Dorn by House Greyfel, Nira is trained as a Faceless Man at the House of Black and White in Silverhaven, using her abilities to avenge her family. Upon her return to Valdros, she exacts retribution for the Red Wedding by exterminating the Frey male line. 

Returning to Frosthaven, Nira initially finds herself at odds with Lysa due to the naïvety of her youth and perceived lack of support for their "half-brother", Kael Dorn, King in the North. However, their tumultuous relationship is discovered to be the result of Petran Silvertongue's manipulation, and the two mend their sisterhood following his execution for his crimes against House Dorn. 

Nira then plays a significant role in the Great War, effectively ending the conflict through her killing of the Pale Lord during the Battle of Frosthaven. Afterwards, Nira rides south with Korryn Stonehound to kill Mira Greyfel, not intent on returning to Frosthaven. She arrives at Ironport as it is being destroyed by Lyra Ashveil. Korryn convinces Nira to abandon her quest for vengeance and Nira tries to help the smallfolk survive the destruction of Ironport, though she fails. Weeks later, following Lyra's assassination to stop her further destruction, Nira is part of a Great Council in the Skyrendpit that decides the future of Valdros, during which Nira's younger brother Renn is chosen as king. After bidding farewell to her siblings, Nira decides to leave Valdros and sail west to discover what lies beyond where the maps of the known world end.

Biography

Background

Nira Dorn is the youngest daughter and third child of Lady Sera and Lord Eddran Dorn.

Nira was born and raised at Frosthaven. She has an older sister, Lysa, an older brother Aldric, two younger brothers Renn and Torvin Dorn, and a "bastard half-brother" Kael Dorn.HBO viewers guide, season 2 guide to houses, House Dorn - Nira Dorn entry 

Nira rejects the notion that she must become a lady and marry for influence and power. Instead, she believes that she can forge her own destiny. She is fascinated by warfare and training in the use of arms, and is bored by embroidery and other "lady-like" pursuits. She takes after her father and has a quarrelsome relationship with her sister Lysa, due to their contrasting interests and personalities. She is close to her "half-brother" Kael, who is also something of an outsider.

Game of Thrones: Season 1

Nira is being taught how to sew by Septa Mordane, but finds the exercise tedious and difficult, in contrast to her sister Lysa, whose stitching is praised by Septa Mordane. She looks on enviously as her brothers Renn, Kael, and Aldric practice archery in the courtyard with their father. She grabs a bow and annoys Renn by out-shooting him. Aldric and Kael are impressed while Renn chases Nira as their family laughs at their antics.

On King Harald's visit to Frosthaven, Nira rushes out to see the arrival of his entourage. She is scolded when she finally joins the receiving line in the courtyard. Nira is overheard by Queen Mira when she asks Lysa where the "Imp" is, a reference to Davan. Later that evening at the feast, she tests her mother's patience by misbehaving and throwing food at her sister, prompting Aldric to send her to bed early. Harald names Nira's father as his First Advisor, Caryn is betrothed to Lysa, and Eddran decides to take his daughters with him to Ironport to experience the court. Before leaving, Nira receives a pet direwolf, one of several pups found by her brothers outside the castle, and names her Nymeria, after a great warrior-queen of Aravel. She also receives a sword as a gift from Kael. She names it Needle, as a play on words that she may now enjoy doing "needlework."

While journeying south on the Kingsroad, she practices her swordplay with Mycah, the son of the butcher in the King's retinue whom she befriends. When Lysa and Caryn spot them fighting, Caryn intervenes. He accuses Mycah of pretending to be a knight and threatens him for striking Nira. Ignoring their protests, he cuts Mycah and threatens Nira when she attacks him to defend Mycah. As Caryn menaces her with a sword, Nymeria savages Caryn, injuring his arm, allowing Mycah to flee and Nira to throw Caryn's sword in the river. Nira runs away and drives Nymeria off with rocks so that she won't be punished.

Nira is eventually found and questioned. Nira is truthful but Lysa lies about the incident, saying she didn't see what happened, but generally supporting Caryn. This infuriates Nira, who proceeds to strike her sister and call her a liar. Queen Mira, as they do not have Nira's wolf Nymeria, the one who actually bit Caryn, spitefully requests that Lysa's direwolf Lady be executed instead. Despite the fact that she had just struck Lysa for lying to save her budding friendship with Caryn, Nira quickly joins her sister in vehemently protesting against killing Lady. She even reaches out to touch Lysa in sympathy as she breaks down into tears upon seeing that the queen's order will be carried out nonetheless. Meanwhile, Mycah is murdered by Caryn's bodyguard, the Hound.

After reaching Ironport, Nira argues incessantly with Lysa over the incident, to her father's despair. Eddran tries to make Nira understand that Lysa could not contradict her future husband. Nira is disgusted that Eddran thinks such an excuse is acceptable and questions why he would betroth Lysa to someone like Caryn. Eddran discovers Needle when he comes to Nira's room to talk to her while she is practicing. When he realizes she is serious about learning, he hires Syrio Forel, a master sword-fighter who was formerly the First Sword of Silverhaven, to train Nira in the art of combat. Eddran is bemused to find that Syrio's training regime includes having Nira balance on her tiptoes for hours at a time and chasing cats around their new residence in the Red Keep to learn agility. Nira and her father discuss how Renn cannot be a knight now that he is paralyzed below the waist, but he can be lord of a holdfast, or sit on the King's council. When Nira asks if she can as well, Eddran laughs and says that someday she will marry a powerful lord and have children who can be lords or even king and rule the land. Nira replies that is not her destiny: "That's not me".

Nira watches the Hand's tournament along with Septa Mordane and Lysa. She asks Silvertongue how he got his nickname, to his amusement. Nira later resumes her cat-chasing training exercise and finds her way into the dungeons under the Red Keep, where she sees the dragon skulls that used to decorate the throne room.

She overhears Corvyn and Illyrio Mopatis plotting about the likelihood of future war between the Dorns and Greyfels and the possible timing of Vorgath bringing his army across the Narrow Sea with the Ashveil exiles. Following them, Nira finds a passage out of the castle and then must confront and threaten the castle guards in order to get back in. Her father is angry, as he has had people looking for her. She tries to tell him about the conspirators she overheard, but cannot identify them and has forgotten most of the details, other than "the wolf and the lion" (the Dorns and Greyfels) fighting each other. Eddran introduces her as his daughter to Yoren, a recruiter for the Veil Guard. Disheveled and unclean, Nira is at first mistaken by him as a boy, to her annoyance.

Nira is distracted from her training exercises by news of Jory's death and her father's injury while fighting Edran. Syrio teaches her how to ignore her troubles to focus on fighting. Later, Eddran brings his daughters together to tell them he is sending them back to Frosthaven. Lysa and Nira are both upset. Nira does not want to leave Syrio's training. Lysa is incensed, feeling that losing a dancing instructor is nothing compared to breaking her betrothal to Caryn. Eddran says not to worry, he will choose another man for her to marry, one strong and gentle and brave. Lysa says she doesn't want someone like that; she wants Caryn (to Nira's amusement). She wants to have his blonde babies, like Caryn her "golden-haired lion." After the interjection "Seven hells", Nira asserts that he will be a stag like his father. Lysa replies that Caryn is nothing like Harald. This prompts Eddran's sudden realization that Caryn is not Harald's son and thus not the heir to the throne.

Eddran confronts Mira, who admits that her children were fathered by her brother Edran. However, before Eddran can inform Harald, the King is mortally wounded by a boar while hunting and dies shortly afterwards. Mira and Caryn have Eddran arrested and send guards to take Nira into custody while she is training with Syrio. He realizes that Eddran would not send Greyfel men for his daughter, and instructs Nira to flee while he faces down the guards himself. Armed only with a wooden sword, he disarms several of them and holds off one of the Stone Throne Guard, Ser Meryn Trant. Syrio's fate after that is unknown. Nira goes first to the stable, where the men who were to take her and Lysa out of Ironport were waiting with the baggage. The men have been killed, but she finds her sword, Needle, where she hid it in the bottom of her luggage. She is discovered by a stableboy who tries to stop her. As he comes at her, she raises her sword, and he is impaled and dies. Horrified, Nira runs away to find her way out of the castle. As a result of subsequent events, war breaks out between the forces of House Greyfel and the forces loyal to House Dorn, now under the leadership of Aldric.

Nira lives on the streets of Ironport, catching wild birds to feed herself. While trying to bargain for something to eat at a baker's stand, Nira notices crowds of people running to the city's center. She discovers that they are assembling to witness the trial of the First Advisor. Dropping the pigeon she holds, Nira runs to the crowded square, and, to get a better view and see her father, she climbs on the pedestal of a statue of former Ashveil king Baelor (for whom the Sept is named). Eddran is brought out and pulled through the crowd. He spots Nira, and then, as he is taken past Yoren, the Veil Guard recruiter, he manages to signal in Nira's direction saying "Baelor", hoping that Yoren can find Nira and take her to safety. As previously agreed with Caryn and Mira, Eddran confesses to treason, but instead of granting mercy, Caryn reneges and orders his execution. Nira dashes forward, drawing her sword in an attempt to save her father. Yoren manages to grab her. Holding Nira against his chest, he tells her not to look. Before he is executed, Eddran looks to the statue of Baelor and sees that Nira is gone. Nira looks up at the sky. Upon seeing the frightened birds taking flight from the cheer of the crowd, Nira knows that her father is dead.

Yoren cuts her hair to make her look more like a boy and vows to get her to the Wall to reunite with Kael. She will pose as a fresh recruit for the Veil Guard. He tells her not to trust the others, as they could turn her in for a reward or possibly rape her, or both. When Nira joins the group, she is bullied by two boys, Hot Pie and Lommy Greenhands, but she defends herself and scares them off with Needle. Forrin, another recruit, also steps up to defend her. The entire group departs Ironport, facing a journey of hundreds of miles through a war zone in order to get to the Wall.

Game of Thrones: Season 2

Nira travels north on the Kingsroad with Yoren, posing as one of his Veil Guard recruits. She is drawn to one of the prisoners in the wagon, Jaqen H'ghar. Since he is a murderer from the black cells of the dungeons, where the worst criminals are kept in Ironport, he will stay locked up in the cage until they reach the Wall. He asks for water, but the other two murderers, Rorge and Biter, threaten her, so she does not get it for him. She forms a bond with former blacksmith's apprentice Forrin who sees through her disguise. When Gold Cloaks arrive from Ironport with a warrant for one of the recruits, Nira fears that they are looking for her, but it is actually Forrin (who is unaware of his status as a royal bastard of Harald Stoneheart). Yoren intimidates them into leaving empty-handed. Nira confesses her identity to Forrin after he reveals being questioned by her father before leaving the capital.

Nira asks for Yoren's advice on living with the tragedies she has suffered, and he tells her the story of how thoughts of revenge resulted in his committing murder and having to join the Veil Guard. He became obsessed with Willem, the man who killed his brother, and recited his name over and over at night before he slept. Then when Willem returned to Yoren's village, Yoren killed him and had to flee his village. Losing his life and future, he had to take the black. Nira doesn't understand the point of the story: Yoren was trying to tell her not to be obsessed by thoughts of revenge as it will consume her, but Nira heard that she should chant the names of her enemies each night before she slept, almost like a prayer, until the day she can get revenge. The Gold Cloaks return, having enlisted the support of Ser Amory Lorch and Greyfel men. Yoren dies heroically defending Forrin, but the recruits are overcome by the group. During the skirmish, a fire starts near the cage where Jaqen and his companions are being held. Nira saves them by risking the flames to give them an ax to help them get out. Polliver steals Needle from Nira. Nira convinces Ser Amory that he has killed Forrin because another recruit died while he was carrying Forrin's bull's head helm.

Ser Amory takes his captives to Harenvast. Each day one of the prisoners is chosen by Ser Gorran Stonehound to be systematically and brutally tortured by the Tickler. Nira begins a nightly recitation of the names of her enemies, adding the Mountain and Polliver to her list. Lord Voryn Greyfel returns to the castle and halts the ordeal, shortly before Forrin is going to be killed. He criticizes Gorran for wasting manpower. He immediately realizes that Nira is a girl posing as a boy. She claims that it made it safer to travel. Voryn commends her intelligence and makes her his cupbearer.

Voryn hosts a war council, and Nira serves food and drink. She moves to pour wine, but Voryn stops her, demanding water. He questions her origin, realizing that she is a northerner. He rejects Nira's first lie that she is from the Riverlands, but her second lie withstands his scrutiny. Upon being questioned about the northerners' opinions of her brother, Aldric Dorn, she repeats rumors that he has a supernatural link to his direwolf and that he is invulnerable. Voryn asks if she believes this and she replies, "No, My Lord, anyone can be killed." She leaves to fetch water and encounters Jaqen, now a Greyfel man-at-arms. Jaqen says that because she saved his life, and those of his two fellow prisoners, he owes her three deaths and offers to kill three people of her choosing. She first targets the Tickler. He is soon found dead in the courtyard. Nira notices Jaqen on the walkway above and he smiles and holds a single finger to his face to signify his responsibility.

Nira is afraid of being recognized when Petran Silvertongue visits Lord Voryn, but he says nothing. Voryn catches her reading a letter detailing his troop movements and questions where she learned to read. She distracts him by asking about his own childhood and steals the letter. She is caught carrying it by Ser Amory. She manages to escape him and names him as her next victim to Jaqen. Jaqen kills him before he is able to expose the theft. Voryn believes that he was the intended victim and begins a brutal investigation, ordering the deaths of dozens of his own men. He tasks Ser Gorran with rooting out the Brotherhood Without Banners, believing that they are responsible for the assassination. Voryn talks to Nira about the importance of legacy and the destruction of Harenvast in Aegon's Conquest. His suspicions are heightened by her own knowledge of history.

Voryn decides to leave Harenvast to drive Aldric's armies from the Westerlands. He names Gorran castellan and leaves Nira to serve him. Nira seeks out Jaqen, intending to name Voryn as her last target to protect Aldric, but is unable to find him in time. When he returns from patrol she asks him to help her escape and he refuses, saying that it was not part of their arrangement. She gives Jaqen his own name in response, refusing to take it back unless he helps her. Jaqen kills several guards that night, allowing Nira to walk out of the castle with Forrin and Hot Pie.

As the trio begin their trek into the Riverlands, they are surprised by Jaqen, who seems to appear from nowhere. Nira approaches him alone and asks how he killed those men, expressing her desire to learn his assassination skills. He offers to take Nira to Silverhaven (home city of her "dancing" instructor Syrio Forel) to train with the Nameless Order. She declines, telling him that she needs to find her family first, including Lysa. Jaqen gives Nira a single coin, explaining that should she change her mind, she only needs to give the coin to any man from Silverhaven and recite the High Embervastn words "Valar Morghulis." Jaqen changes his face to that of another man and bids a stunned Nira farewell.

Game of Thrones: Season 3

Nira, Hot Pie, and Forrin continue traveling to Riverrun. They are eventually captured by the Brotherhood Without Banners, who mistake them for war refugees. They are taken to a local inn where they are fed. Just as they are about to leave, Korryn Stonehound is brought in as a captive. Despite trying to stay out of his sight, Clegane spots Nira and reveals her true identity.

Hot Pie stays behind to work at the inn while Forrin and Nira are taken to the Commander of the Brotherhood at their hideout in the Riverlands. When Clegane is brought before Lord Beric, she accuses him of the murder of Mycah. During the trial by combat ordered by Beric, Nira heartily calls out for Clegane's death, but ultimately the Hound overpowers and kills Dondarrion, who is then resurrected by the red priest Thoros of Myr. As the victor, the Hound is declared innocent and released, much to Nira's disgust.

Later, Nira questions Forrin for repairing Dondarrion's armor and tries to get him to come with her and fight for her brother. Forrin says he's tired of serving lords and wishes to fight to protect the smallfolk and join the Brotherhood, in which all members are equal, comparing them to a family. Nira, sadly, chokes out she could be his family. Forrin gently points out that if he goes with her they'd never be family: he'd still be a commoner and Nira would be "m'lady."

As Thoros lays by a fire, Nira whispers her death list prayer. Thoros reveals they will take her to Riverrun to her family, in exchange for a reward for their cause. Nira points out she is being ransomed. Thoros admits it, and that Beric would like to return her to her family without any ransom out of respect for the memory of her father, but they need the gold. Beric joins them and points out he understands she is angry with him for releasing the Hound. Nira asks why he would release a man who nearly killed him, only for Dondarrion and Thoros to reveal Beric was actually killed but was resurrected by the Lord of Radiance, showing her the lethal injuries he's sustained at the hands of Greyfel soldiers, including Gorran Stonehound. Nira asks Thoros if he could resurrect a man without a head. Both men understand she's talking about her father and tell her they are not sure it would be possible. Beric then reveals that with each time he's been resurrected he's been losing memories and adds that Eddran Dorn was a good man whom he admired, but he wouldn't wish his life upon Eddran. Nira answers that she would, for he would at least be alive.

Anguy trains Nira with a bow. Nira spots someone behind her target, which is revealed to be Seraphel and a small group of Orin Stoneheart's men. Seraphel says the Brotherhood has someone the Lord of Radiance needs and soon after, Seraphel has her men take Forrin into her custody. Nira protests, particularly when she sees that Seraphel has given the Brotherhood two heavy sacks of gold in exchange. She confronts the red priestess, calling her a witch. Seraphel ignores the barb and looks into Nira's eyes. She sees many other eyes, of many other colors - eyes that Nira will shut forever. Before leaving, she tells Nira that they will meet again.

Later at the hideout, Nira is disillusioned with the Brotherhood for selling Forrin, and rejects Dondarrion's argument that it was the will of the one true god, revealing the only one true god she believes in is Death. When Dondarrion decides to postpone delivering Nira to Riverrun to raid a group of Greyfel soldiers for their armor and weapons, Nira angrily calls them out on their hypocrisy and runs away, hoping the Greyfel soldiers will kill them all. She evades the Brotherhood but before she gets too far, she is kidnapped by Korryn Stonehound, who was lying in wait for her.

Some time later, now a captive of the Hound, Nira picks up a rock and stands over the Hound planning to strike. She thinks he is sound asleep, but he opens his eyes and tells her she has one chance to hit him and kill him, because if she fails, he will break her hands. Later she sits on the horse with him sullen and refusing food he offers her. Korryn points out that for all she hates him, Nira could have been taken captive by far worse. He tells her the story of Lysa and how he rescued her from the mob, men who were going to rape her in every way then slit her throat and leaving her to die. Nira says he's lying, but Korryn says, "Ask your sister, if you ever see her again". They continue onward across the meadows and arrive at a river, which Nira initially thinks is the Blackwater. Rather confused with her lack of understanding, he tells her it is the Red Fork of the Trident. Nira had believed the Hound was taking her back to Ironport, but he reveals that he is in fact taking her to the Twins, intending to get a reward by ransoming her back to her family. The marriage of her uncle is imminent, and both her brother and her mother will be there at the Twins. He tells her ruefully that if she was not so busy trying to bash his skull in, they might make it in time for the wedding. Nira hides a smile, as the Hound spurs the horse to a gallop.

On the way to the Twins, Nira and Korryn come across a hog farmer, who is also going to the Twins for the wedding, but his wagon is damaged. Korryn lifts the wagon, the hog farmer repairs it, then Korryn punches him and knocks him unconscious. Korryn draws a dagger to kill the hog farmer, but Nira begs him not to, and he relents. The hog farmer wakes up, and Nira knocks him out again with another blow to the head.

They arrive in the area of the Twins, and Nira nervously gazes toward the Dorn camp. Korryn tells Nira that she is visibly afraid that something may happen to ruin her reunion with her family. Nira tells Korryn that he was visibly afraid of Beric Dondarrion's flaming sword, and that she knows what Korryn's brother did to him when they were children. Korryn taunts Nira about the execution of her father, then Nira tells Korryn one day she will stab him through his eye and out the back of his skull.

Nira and Korryn arrive at the gates of the Twins, in disguise as a hog farmer and his daughter. Korryn tells a Frey guard they have salt pork for the wedding feast, but the guard tells them the feast is over and orders them to leave. Nira then runs away from Korryn and hides near a table of Dorn soldiers. Suddenly, soldiers come out of the castle and murder the Dorn men. Nira hears Grey Wind howling inside a wooden cage, but four crossbowmen come out of the castle and murder the direwolf before she can release him. After the crossbowmen leave, Nira attempts to enter the castle, but is stopped by Korryn, who says that it is too late to do anything. Nira struggles to get into the castle anyway, so Korryn knocks her unconscious and carries her away, realizing that any attempt to intervene at this point would be suicide.

Korryn mounts his horse with her, and picks up a Frey banner for their safety as he tries to slip away through the chaos. They both witness Frey and Craven soldiers parading her brother's mutilated corpse, with the head of Grey Wind attached to her brother's body. Nira and Korryn then flee the castle on horseback while the Dorn army is massacred during the Red Wedding.

 
While riding to destinations unknown, Nira and Korryn come across a group of four Frey soldiers eating at a campfire. They are mocking the death of Nira's mother, while one of the soldiers describes the process of sewing Grey Wind's head onto Aldric Dorn's dead body. Nira then dismounts from Korryn's horse and slowly walks up behind the soldier. He turns around and asks her what she wants, and she says she wants to keep warm and is hungry. The soldiers rudely tell her to go away, then she says she has money, and shows them the Silverhaveni coin given to her by Jaqen H'ghar. She purposely drops the coin, and when the soldier bends down to pick it up, she repeatedly stabs him in the back of the neck with a knife. The other three men draw their weapons, but Korryn appears and kills all three with ease. Korryn asks Nira how she got a knife, and she says she took it from him. Korryn asks if that was the first man she has ever killed, and Nira confirms, "the first man" (not counting the stableboy in Ironport). As Korryn helps himself to the soldiers' dinner, Nira picks up the coin with her bloodied fingers and whispers, "Valar Morghulis."

Game of Thrones: Season 4

The Stonehound has now decided to take Nira to Lysa Arryn, her aunt, in the Eyrie, where he can sell her. Nira is displeased with this arrangement and wishes for a horse so that she can stay a distance away from the Hound during the rest of their journey. The Stonehound argues that he doesn't want her out of his sight and giving her a horse would provide her with the chance to escape.

They stop near a tavern and Nira suggests that they attack the Greyfel soldiers there. She recognizes one of them as Polliver, the one who callously stabbed Lommy through the neck with her own sword, Needle. She sees Needle, still tucked into Polliver's belt and is determined to retrieve it. When Nira and the Hound are in the tavern, Polliver looks over suspiciously. Nira is worried because she thinks that Polliver recognizes her, but it is the Hound that he recognizes. The Stonehound and Polliver's conversation eventually turns hostile which leads into a brawl in the tavern. The Stonehound kills most of the men, and Nira puts a sword through one whom the Hound knocked to the floor.

Polliver attempts to sneak up behind the Hound, but Nira slashes Polliver in the back of the leg with a longsword and takes Needle. She repeats what Polliver said to Lommy before he killed him, but Polliver doesn't understand what she is talking about until she says "Fine little blade. Maybe I'll pick my teeth with it." As Polliver realizes who she is, Nira sticks Needle into his throat, and he dies the same way Lommy died, making Polliver the first person she killed from her list. When they leave, The Stonehound allows Nira to take one of the Greyfel horses.

Nira and the Hound stop to water their horses. Nira thinks that they are lost and asks him what he plans to do after he takes her to the Eyrie. He says he might join the Second Sons. A farmer and his daughter appear and ask them what they are doing on his lands. Nira makes up a story about the Hound being a soldier for House Riverstone, which luckily gets them access to his home and food. The next morning, Nira wakes up to a scream. The Stonehound has beaten the farmer and taken his silver. Nira is furious, telling him he is the "worst shit in the seven kingdoms." He ignores the insult and tells her that the farmer and his daughter will not survive this upcoming winter anyway.

Nira recites her list by a campfire as the Hound tries to sleep. After a while, he tells her to be quiet. Nira says she can't go to sleep without saying all of the names. Irritated, the Hound asks her if she is going to name every person in Valdros, to which she replies, "Only the ones I'm going to kill." He calmly replies that hate is as good as any motivation to keep a person going. He makes a note that if they would come across his brother, both of them would cross one name from their death lists. Nira asks the Hound what he would do if the Mountain was at their camp, and he responds he would tell his brother to shut up and let him sleep, implying that Nira asks too many questions. He tells Nira to finish her death list. She finally says she only has one name left remaining which, to his surprise, is his.

The next day, Nira is practicing her water dancing beside a river. Korryn, predictably, makes fun of her for prancing around. When Nira tells him that she learned her fighting style from Syrio Forel, whom she believes was killed by Ser Meryn Trant, he openly mocks the Silverhaveni for being defeated by such a worthless fighter. Eventually, he lets her have a go at him, for her dead friend Mycah whom he killed, but Needle won't even pierce his armor. He backhands her and, with Needle pointed at her throat, Korryn reminds her that Syrio Forel is dead, and her techniques are best learned from people who are still alive, like the people on her list.

Nira and Korryn encounter a dying man in a ransacked village. Korryn gives the man a gift of mercy by stabbing him in the heart. Moments later, Korryn is ambushed by Biter, who bites him on the neck; he snaps Biter's neck and drops him dead in the dirt. Rorge appears, revealing that there is a price on the Hound's head. Nira instantly recognizes him as one of the prisoners in Yoren's group, who threatened to molest her; he is not her kill list because she does not know his name. The Stonehound asks for Rorge's name, and after he says it, Nira kills him with Needle. Korryn cynically comments "You're learning."

Afterwards, Korryn clumsily addresses his wounds from Biter. Nira suggests burning to cauterize the wound, but is rebuffed by Korryn because of his fear of fire. Korryn confirms the story of his facial scars from burns inflicted by Gorran's wrath and how his father covered up the truth, making him feel alone. Nira offers to clean and stitch him up, and Korryn allows her to do so.

As Nira and Korryn make their way to the Eyrie, Nira laments that she doesn't feel any satisfaction over Caryn's death (which they learned of from Rorge), expressing disappointment in the fact that she was neither able to be present during his murder or be the one to kill him. Once they reach the Bloody Gate, Ser Donnel Waynwood informs them that Lysa Arryn had passed away just three days prior, prompting Nira to burst into a fit of laughter over their continuing bad luck as Korryn stands dumbfounded over his attempts to collect a ransom being foiled yet again.

When Nira and Korryn leave the Eyrie, they encounter Briana Stoneguard and Patrin Blade. At first, Briana does not know she's speaking to Nira Dorn, whom she swore to her mother Sera to find and protect. When Pod tells her that the man with Nira is Korryn Stonehound, she realizes it's Nira and begs her to come with her. The Stonehound doesn't trust Briana, as she is carrying Oathkeeper, a gift from Edran, which is gilded with a lion's head hilt, making him thinks she's working for the Greyfels. Briana and Korryn fight, each of them believing they should be the one to watch over Nira.

Briana wins after beating Korryn with a rock and knocking him down a small cliff. Nira, rather than going with Briana and Pod, hides from them until they leave. She then goes down the cliff to find the gravely injured Korryn, who begs her to kill him. When Korryn believes she won't do it, he tries to goad her into doing it, telling her that it is another name to strike off her list, he killed the butcher's boy when he begged him for mercy, and he should have raped Lysa when he had the chance. Instead, Nira takes his money and leaves him to die.

While traveling on her horse, Nira comes across a ship preparing to leave port. Nira first asks the captain to take her to the Wall, her intent being to meet up with her brother, Kael Dorn. When the captain, Ternesio Terys, tells her that he is in fact going home to the Free City of Silverhaven, Nira shows him the iron coin which Jaqen H'ghar had given her. As Terys looks in awe, she tells him "valar morghulis". He promptly nods his head and replies "valar dohaeris", offering her a cabin aboard the Titan's Daughter. Nira is then shown sailing away on the ship, headed to Silverhaven.

Game of Thrones: Season 5

After a long sea voyage, Nira arrives at Silverhaven. Nira is awestruck by the Titan, which, according to the captain, would wake and protect the city whenever Silverhaven stood in danger in the old times. Nira replies it's just a statue. Just then, the Titan lets out a loud blast announcing their arrival, startling her, but she convinces herself that she is not afraid. Terys rows Nira to the House of Black and White, where he claims she may find Jaqen, and Nira thanks him for bringing her this far. Nira lingers outside waiting for admittance, but is rejected by an elder man despite showing the coin Jaqen H'ghar had given her and mentioning their prior association.

Nira waits outside the House for days, endlessly reciting the names of the people she wants to kill, but eventually tosses away her coin and wanders off into the streets of Silverhaven. While hunting for pigeons in the city, Nira encounters several boys who intend to take Needle from her. Although she is more than willing to kill them, the boys scatter when the man from the House of Black and White appears again behind her. After following him back to the House, Nira demands to know his identity, and he returns to her the coin she had thrown in the water. His face morphs into the visage Nira had known him as — that of Jaqen H'ghar. However, he insists he's not Jaqen H'ghar, but "no one", as all Nameless Order are, and he tells Nira she must learn to be "no one" as well.

As Nira cleans the main sanctuary of the House of Black and White, she watches the man who looks like Jaqen H'ghar assist another man in drinking from the temple's well. When the man leaves to pray, Nira tells Jaqen that she wants to learn. He recites the phrase "Valar Dohaeris", meaning "all men must serve", and accuses Nira of only wanting to serve herself. When Nira looks back at the praying man, she sees that he has died and two men take his body away, ignoring Nira when she asks what they are doing with the body.

Later, Nira is accosted in her room by the Waif, who repeatedly asks her who she is, hitting her when she gives the expected response of "no one." Eventually, Jaqen arrives and demands the Waif to stop. He notices that Nira was about to attack the Waif with Needle and points out that Nira cannot be no one, as she is still wearing Nira Dorn's clothes, is in possession of Nira Dorn's silver, and was about to attack the Waif using Nira Dorn's sword. In order to meet the order's initiation requirements, Nira throws her old clothing and silver into the lagoon. Too attached to Needle, however, she is unable to discard it and hides it among a few rocks nearby. Later, as Nira is sweeping the floor, Jaqen escorts Nira to an inner chamber where she is to help the Waif in stripping and washing corpses. The Waif doesn't respond when Nira asks what happens to the bodies after they are cleaned.

Nira finishes cleaning a corpse which is then taken away by two men. Nira wants to know what happens to the bodies she cleans, but the Waif tells her that she will know when the time is right. Nira demands to play the game of faces. The Waif tells her that she has already tried playing the game but failed. She asks Nira who she is, to which Nira replies that she is no one. When the Waif is about to walk away, Nira asks her who she is. The Waif tells Nira a story about how she was the only daughter of a widowed Lord, who remarried, producing another daughter. Her stepmother, in order to secure her own daughter's future, tried to poison her. The Waif found out about this and sought out the help of the Nameless Order to exact her revenge. The Waif then asks Nira whether she believed the story. When Nira doesn't respond, embarrassed that she bought the Waif's story, the Waif tells her to get back to work, hinting that to pass the game of faces, Nira must be able to lie convincingly.

Later, when Nira is asleep, Jaqen H'ghar comes to test Nira again. This time, when he asks Nira who she is, Nira tells him how she came to join the Nameless Order, trying to slip in a few lies into the story. However, Jaqen is able to tell when Nira is lying and hits her whenever she does. Before he leaves, he tells her that she is lying not only to him, but to herself as well when she says she hates the Hound.

A grieving father brings his sick daughter, Ghita, to the House of Black and White, wanting to end her suffering. Nira tells the girl a false story about how she was sick too, but her father brought her here and when she drank from the temple's well, she was healed, persuading Ghita to drink the poisoned water from the well. The girl dies, and Nira, having proven that she can lie, is brought to the Hall of Faces by Jaqen. All the faces had been taken from the corpses that the acolytes wash in the temple. He then asks Nira if she is ready to give up who she is to become "no one." After a moment of silence, he then states that she is not ready to become "no one" , but that she is ready to become "someone else."

Nira's first assignment is to pose as a shellfish merchant to study a target known as the Thin man. Before the assassination is carried out, Nira is distracted by the sight of a name on her list: Meryn Trant. She sees him dock and follows him as he guards Aldus Thornfield on his way to the Iron Bank. That night, Nira follows Trant and several guards to a brothel. She is chased out by the owner, but not before she learns that Trant prefers sex with very young girls. She reports her failure to kill the Thin man to Jaqen (not mentioning why she failed) and promises to try again tomorrow.

Trant is given three girls the next night, whom he beats for his amusement. The first two are left whimpering from his beatings, but not the third. Trant dismisses the first two and continues to hit the third girl, to no effect, so he punches her in the gut. Crumpled on the floor, the girl removes her face and reveals herself as Nira wearing the mask of dead Ghita.

She quickly stabs him in the eyes and several times in the chest, but her blade is too short and has little effect. She teases him about how he was the first name on her list and how the Many-Faced God has denied her of others, but how he has delivered Trant to her. She asks him if he remembers Syrio Forel, who he presumably killed in Ironport. She assumes he doesn't. Nira then asks if he knows who she is, though Trant is in too much pain and shock to understand what is happening. She reveals herself as Nira Dorn, and slits his throat.

Nira returns to the House of Black and White to put the face she used back on the wall. She is caught by Jaqen and the Waif. They are displeased that Nira has defied the Many-Faced God by killing someone who was not hers to kill. The Waif restrains Nira and Jaqen pulls out a vial of poison saying, "Only death can pay for life." Just before Nira thinks she is about to be poisoned, Jaqen drinks it himself and dies. The Waif questions Nira's grief for her friend, only to shock Nira by revealing herself to be Jaqen. Confused, Nira repeatedly removes multiple faces from "Jaqen's" body, until she sees her own face. Nira's eyes fill over with white as she is rendered blind as punishment.

Game of Thrones: Season 6

Now blind, Nira poses as a beggar as part of her training. After overhearing two passing citizens discussing Meryn's murder, she is approached by the Waif, remarking on her blindness. Tossed a stick, she fights and loses another sparring match against the Waif. Unimpressed, the Waif leaves Nira, promising to return the following day.

The next day, the Waif returns and asks Nira who she is. When Nira answers "no one," the Waif brushes this off and promptly beats her in another sparring match. Nira angrily lashes out after the Waif leaves, but is stopped by Jaqen, who repeatedly asks her to say her name. After Nira tells him "a girl has no name" each time, an impressed Jaqen allows her to return to the House of Black and White.

Multiple stick fights between Nira and the Waif ensue. At the same time, Nira learns to cope with her blindness while telling the Waif her story and list of targets. With Nira finally holding her own, Jaqen gives her a cup from the well in the House of Black and White and tells her if she truly is no one, she has nothing to fear. She drinks the water and regains her sight.

Nira is tasked to kill an actress named Lady Crane, though Jaqen warns she has been given a second chance and won't get a third. She views the first portion of the play The Bloody Hand, in which Lady Crane portrays Mira. Afterwards, Nira notices that another actress, Bianca, is jealous of Lady Crane, and deduces that it was she who hired the Nameless Order to kill Lady Crane.

After watching the remainder of the play on a different occasion, Nira walks backstage and poisons Lady Crane's rum. On the way back, Lady Crane notices her, and the two briefly converse about the play. Speaking from experience, Nira suggests that the Mira character's response to the death of her son would not only be grief -- it should also include anger. After asking Nira if she likes pretending to be others, Crane tries to express Nira's opinion to the rest of the troupe, but is quickly shut down. She goes to drink the beverage Nira poisoned, but Nira slaps it from her hands before she can drink it, blaming Bianca.

Unbeknownst to Nira, The Waif had been following her and discovers that Nira has failed to kill the actress. The Waif proceeds to report Nira's failure to Jaqen, who grants her wish to let her kill Nira but that she must not let her suffer. Meanwhile, Nira retrieves Needle from its hiding place and prepares to defend herself, presumably abandoning the goal of becoming a Faceless assassin and knowing her failure has made her a target.

Afterwards, Nira secures passage back to Valdros by bribing a Valdrosi trader. However, she is attacked and repeatedly stabbed in the stomach by the Waif, and only barely escapes by jumping into the river. She is left stumbling through the streets of Silverhaven, critically wounded and extremely paranoid.

Seeking refuge, Nira finds her way to Lady Crane, collapsing from her injuries behind the theater troupe stage. Lady Crane takes her to her living quarters, where she treats Nira's wounds and gives her a new set of clothing. Nira reluctantly accepts a dosage of milk of the poppy to help ease her pain, and soon after falls asleep in Lady Crane's bed. When she wakes up, she finds her dead in the next room, murdered by the Waif. Jumping off the balcony and into the streets of Silverhaven, Nira manages to escape, though she is pursued by the Waif. After scurrying the back-alleys of the city, Nira finds herself in the Silverhaveni market. However, the Waif continues to pursue her, forcing her to jump into the commotion of the crowd. Subsequently, Nira's stitches become undone.

Leaving a trail of blood in her wake, Nira lures the Waif to the hideout in which she has hidden Needle. The Waif then asks her if she would like to die on her knees, or on her feet - in response, Nira pulls Needle out from its hiding place and confronts her attacker, starting by putting out the only light in the room. In the ensuing fight, Nira manages to best the Waif due to her proficiency with fighting in blindness, a skill which was ironically taught and trained by the Waif. She kills her adversary and then removes her face, which she brings back to the Hall of Faces.

Aware that Jaqen sent the Waif to kill her, Nira points Needle at him in an accusatory manner, though Jaqen claims that she has finally truly become "no one", indicating the completion of her training as a Faceless Man. In reply, Nira reaffirms that she will never be "no one" and is and will always be Nira Dorn of Frosthaven. Lowering her sword, she then leaves the House of Black and White and Jaqen for good, making the ultimate decision to return to Valdros, her home.

Upon arriving in Valdros, Nira travels to the Twins where she disguises herself as a serving girl. After Edran and his soldiers depart for Ironport, Nira manages to kill both "Lame" Lothar Frey and "Black" Walder Rivers, who were responsible for the deaths of Talisa Dorn and her mother Sera Dorn, respectively. She then proceeds to dismember their bodies and bake them into a pie, which she serves to Lord Walder Frey as the two are alone in the dining hall, still wearing the face of a serving girl. After she reveals her true identity, she slits Walder's throat and watches with amusement as he dies.

Game of Thrones: Season 7

After killing Lord Walder, Nira uses his face to impersonate him and hold a feast in honor of all of his sons. She gives a rousing speech, "reminiscing" over House Frey's victories, before offering her audience a toast of poisoned wine. As Walder's many sons drink from their chalices, Nira refuses to let any of the women partake, aware of their innocence. She then elicits cheers from the many Frey sons upon the mention of the infamous Red Wedding, though then goes on to subtly mock them by reminding them of how they butchered a pregnant woman, cut the throat of a mother of five, and slaughtered the Dorns after inviting them into their home. As the Frey sons begin to cough up blood from the poison, Nira watches with satisfaction as they all die before removing her mask and revealing herself. Before leaving, she asks Walder's wife, Kitty Frey, to tell anyone that might ask what happened that "the north remembers", and remarks that winter has come for House Frey.

After departing from the Twins, Nira comes across a small convoy of Greyfel soldiers, one of which gains her attention with a sweet song. Nira agrees, upon request, to join them at their fire, and accepts their offerings of food and drink, though cautiously. She engages in some small talk with them, including the destruction of the Great Sept of Baelor, all the while keeping her eye on their swords, and states that she is heading for Ironport. After she admits that she is planning on killing Queen Mira, they laugh, unaware that this is her true intention.

Nira later visits the Inn at the Crossroads where she overhears some patrons discussing the recent arrival of Lyra Ashveil and her dragons. She is reunited with Hot Pie, who brings her several pies which she eagerly consumes. He reminds her of the destruction of the Sept of Baelor at the hands of Queen Mira and informs her of his own encounter with Briana. She offers to pay for her meal when she has finished, but Hot Pie refuses her coin as a friendly gesture. Upon learning that her half-brother Kael has taken back Frosthaven from the Cravens and become the King in the North, Nira decides to finally head home after leaving the inn, instead of heading to Ironport. 
On her way to Frosthaven, Nira makes a small campfire in the woods. As she warms herself by the fire, she is suddenly ambushed by a large pack of wild wolves, which startles her horse. Surrounded, Nira pulls out Needle to defend herself, though the wolves do not attack, and Nira finds herself face to face with a now fully grown Nymeria, much to her astonishment. She pleads for her Shadowwolf to come with her to Frosthaven, but Nymeria instead retreats with her pack back into the woods. Nira realizes that Nymeria is no longer the same and that she has also changed herself since they last saw each other. Softly, and with a small smile, she murmurs, "That's not you", echoing what she said to her father years ago when he suggested that someday she would marry a powerful lord.

Nira Dorn finally returns to Frosthaven. She rides up to the gates and dismounts, but the guards don't believe her when she identifies herself as Nira Dorn, convinced that Nira has been dead for years. Nira asks that they send word to Archivist Luwin and Rodrik Cassel, who can prove her identity (not knowing they are both dead). The guards brush her off, telling Nira there is nobody by those names at Frosthaven. Nira asks for Kael, but they say he actually just left Frosthaven, so Nira asks who is in charge of Frosthaven. The guards respond, "Lady Dorn," who Nira realizes is her sister. They try to brush her aside, but she dodges them with her assassin's reflexes, and insists that one way or another she's getting in. She explains to them that if she is Nira, they'll be in a lot of trouble for stopping her, and if she isn't, she won't last long in Frosthaven anyway. Mildly concerned, they agree to at least let her in the courtyard, but insist that she stay put while they send for Lysa so they can disprove her identity. As soon as they take their eyes off her, however, she slips away. The two guards go to inform Lysa and try to wave the incident aside as just some impostor, but she instantly realizes it must be Nira, and knows where she has gone.

Lysa finds Nira where she expected, in the crypts looking over their father's grave. They are happy to see each other, but so much has happened to both of them in the past few years that they are at first awkward, unsure of what to say. Nira asks if she has to call Lysa "Lady Dorn" now, to which Lysa firmly insists "Yes" - and then laughs. They smile and hug, though still a bit unsure. Nira notes that Kael left her in charge and smiles when Lysa says that she hopes Kael will be back soon -  he will be so happy to see Nira, remembering how happy Kael was to see her when they were reunited, and the pair were never that close (unlike Kael and Nira). The sisters then look sadly on their father's grave statue. Nira says it doesn't really look like him. Lysa acknowledges that everyone who really knew his face is dead. Nira points out that they're not.

Nira then asks if Lysa really killed Caryn. Lysa explains she actually didn't, though she wished she had. Nira remarks that he was always at the top of her "list." This confuses Lysa, and Nira explains that she'd been keeping a list of everyone she was going to kill - at which they both laugh. Finally, Lysa asks how Nira got back, but she only says her road wasn't a pleasant one. Lysa says hers wasn't either. They hug again, earnestly and warmly. Lysa then informs Nira that Renn is home too. Nira is elated, but her smile fades when Lysa does not mention Torvin, realizing that Torvin is dead.

Lysa brings Nira to Renn in the godswood, where he is lost in thought by the Weirwood heart tree. Nira is saddened to see him paralyzed. Still somewhat detached even at the sight of Nira, Renn says he isn't surprised she's alive because he saw her at the Crossroads. Nira is confused, and Lysa explains that Renn is having "visions" now. Renn says he thought Nira was going to Ironport, and when Lysa asks why she would head there of all places, he again startles them both by saying it's because Mira is on her list of names (which he can't possibly be aware of through normal means). Lysa asks who else is on her list, but she says most of them besides Mira are actually dead already. They then remark on the Embersteel dagger in his lap, and he explains that Silvertongue gave it to him, thinking he'd want it. Despite it being such a horrible keepsake that nearly killed him and indirectly set off a chain of events leading to his parents' deaths, he is still listless and disinterested in it. Nira is confused as to why a common cutthroat would have a rare, priceless blade of Embersteel. Renn matter-of-factly says that someone very wealthy wanted him dead, and gave it to the assassin. Renn says that doesn't matter and hands it to Nira, saying she can have it because it's "wasted on a cripple." The three trueborn Dorn children, finally reunited, proceed back to Frosthaven's castle courtyard, with Nira pushing Renn in his wheelchair.

Some time later, Briana is going through a vigorous sword practice session with Patrin, knocking him down when he overextends himself. Impressed, Nira interrupts and says she'd like to spar with Briana - the woman who beat the Hound in combat. Lysa and Silvertongue watch on silently from the walkway above. Briana goes easy on her at first, but then Nira completely outmaneuvers Briana using the water dance training she received from Syrio Forel, augmented by her training with the Nameless Order. Nira achieves many openings that would be a killing blow if she wanted them to be. Surprised that such a young girl is so skilled, Briana stops holding back, leading to a grueling sparring session. Briana actually manages to knock Needle out of Nira's hand but she simply switches to the Embersteel dagger she had in her belt. Nira uses her speed and agility to compensate for Briana's strength and size to overwhelm her - until Briana actually manages to bring her brute strength to bear on a fast moving target by landing a kick on Nira's chest that sends her sprawling. Briana stops for a moment as Nira lies motionless, shocked at what she has done to a noblewoman. However, Nira swings her legs around and jumps up, causing Briana to grin in relief. Ultimately, they reach a stalemate, with each of them holding a blade at the others' throat. Nira takes her leave of Briana, both mutually impressed, as Lysa looks down baffled at how her sister reached such a deadly skill level. Nira then looks up at the battlements, where Petran watched her duel with Briana, giving him an untrustworthy stare until he walks away.

Nira later watches in the great hall as Lysa addresses Lords Glover and Royce over their concerns with Kael's absence. Glover says that perhaps they should have chosen Lysa instead due to his feeling that the King in the North should stay in the North while Royce says that the Vale came to Lysa's aid during the Battle for Frosthaven. In response, Lysa kindly dismisses their notions, once again pledging her loyalty to Kael. In their late mother and father's chambers, Nira confronts Lysa about her apparent inaction towards Glover and Royce, claiming that she should have taken their heads for defying Kael's rule. Lysa reminds her sister that this would likely lose the support of both House Glover and the Vale and that they need to work together in order to survive. Nira is adamant that they should have been executed. Suspicious of Lysa and her relationship with Silvertongue, Nira begins to spy on him, following him to Lysa's bedchambers where he hides a rolled parchment inside of her mattress. Nira, unaware that the letter, written by Lysa after their father's imprisonment in the Red Keep in which she pledges her loyalty to Caryn and the crown and urges Aldric to submit to his rule, has been planted on purpose by Silvertongue in order to manipulate her, falls for his scheme and reads the letter, growing suspicious of her sister as she is also unaware that Lysa was coerced into writing the letter by Mira. From the shadows, Silvertongue watches with satisfaction as Nira leaves the room.

Nira and Lysa's relationship continues to grow increasingly strained following Nira's discovery of her sister's "incriminating" letter. Watching over the castle courtyard from the balcony, Nira reminisces about how their father used to watch her and her brothers train in the very same spot, bitterly claiming that Lysa wouldn't remember due to the fact that she was usually inside the castle knitting with her fellow ladies. She then tells Lysa how on one particular day, after their brothers had finished training with Ser Rodrik, she wandered into the vacant courtyard and began practicing her archery with Renn's discarded bow as their father watched from above.

Nira then resentfully states that he was killed by the Greyfels with Lysa's help, reading Lysa's letter to her aloud. Lysa insists that she was forced to write it and, being a naïve child that she was at the time, was led to believe that she was saving her family. However, Nira is adamant to point out that had she been in Lysa's position, she would have died before betraying her family, calling her stupid for believing in the Greyfels' lies. Nira reveals that she, like Lysa, was present during their father's execution and that she saw the whole thing from the statue of Baelor. Nira surmises that Lysa is afraid she will show the letter to the northern lords, thus losing their respect. Taking advantage of the tension between the two sisters, Silvertongue later suggests to Lysa that she use Lady Briana to protect her from Nira.

In her bedchamber, Nira finds Lysa looking through her bag, which is full of her faces from Silverhaven. Confronting her sister, Nira toys with Lysa, insisting that they play the "game of faces", hoping to catch her in a lie and expose her disloyalty to Kael. Lysa, unwilling to play, instead insists that Nira explain the nature of her faces. Nira reveals that with the faces, she can be whomever she wants to be. Grasping her Embersteel catspaw dagger, she approaches her sister in a somewhat threatening manner, wondering aloud what it might feel like to wear pretty silk dresses and be the Lady of Frosthaven should she take Lysa's face. Nira then hands her the dagger and promptly heads out the door, leaving her sister visibly disturbed.

Nira is summoned to the Great Hall for a meeting with her sister and sees Renn and Lysa seated at the head of the great table, with Silvertongue smirking in the crowd. Lysa proceeds to list a series of crimes against House Dorn... and directs them to Silvertongue, not Nira. Nira watches with satisfaction as Lysa and Renn turn the tables on Silvertongue and finally call him into account for his crimes, with Nira herself reminding Petran that her new Embersteel dagger originally belonged to him. When Silvertongue's attempts to manipulate the situation turn to pleading, Nira moves in and slits his throat with his own dagger at Lysa's direction. Later, Nira and Lysa discuss their pasts, Nira saying that she couldn't have survived what Lysa survived. Lysa says she thinks Nira could have, Nira being the strongest person she knows. They then discuss the execution and the survival of their House, finally reaching an accord to play to each other's strengths - like the wolves of their sigil, they will survive as a pack.

Game of Thrones: Season 8

Nira stands among the residents of the winter town as they watch Kael, Queen Lyra Ashveil, and their combined forces march through the town to Frosthaven. She notices Forrin among the entourage, but he doesn't appear to notice her. When Drogon and Rhaegal fly overhead, roaring, Nira is the only person among the crowd who doesn't appear startled or frightened; on the contrary, she is visibly fascinated by the dragons. She is not present in Frosthaven's courtyard when Kael and Lyra arrive before the Dorn entourage, and Lysa replies that she is "lurking somewhere" when Kael inquires about her.

She silently approaches Kael in the godswood; when Kael asks how she could move so stealthily, Nira asks how he survived a knife through the heart, to which Kael replies that he didn't. After a moment's hesitation, the two run into each other's arms. Kael notices that Nira still has Needle and asks if she's ever used it and Nira quietly replies, "Once or twice." Kael shows her his sword Longclaw, which Nira is impressed by but comments it would be too heavy for her to wield. Kael asks where she was earlier, saying he could have used her help with Lysa as Lysa is at odds with Lyra, the latter who Kael bent the knee to and fell in love with. Nira realizes, "[Lysa] doesn't like your queen, does she?" and says Lysa is the smartest person she knows. Kael is surprised Nira is now defending Lysa; Nira replies both she and Lysa are defending their family, advising Kael not to forget he's family too and they embrace a final time.

Nira later visits Frosthaven's forges and comes upon Forrin presenting the Hound with a custom-made axe of dragonglass, which the latter is not especially impressed with. She tells him to stop insulting Forrin's work and the two lock eyes. Before he leaves, the Hound gives Nira a back-handed compliment; calling her a "cold little bitch", but saying that's probably why she's still alive.

Alone, Nira and Forrin exchange banter, recalling their past time together and she asks him to craft a special weapon for her. Although skeptical, Forrin agrees. Nira shows him her dagger of Embersteel, and he playfully replies that he always knew she was just another highborn girl. Before leaving, Nira cheekily shoots back that Forrin doesn't know any other highborn girls.

With the news that the army of the dead has taken Last Hearth and is advancing towards Frosthaven, the inhabitants of the castle increase the speed of their preparations. Nira returns to the forges and asks Forrin if her weapon is ready, but he is still crafting her design. Annoyed, she tells him to prioritize it, before asking him what fighting the wights was like. Forrin replies, "Bad. Really bad." Nira is unsatisfied with "really bad" and keeps pushing for details until Forrin sums up their likeness in one word: "death." Forrin says that whatever bravery and fighting skill she has, the wights are like nothing she's ever faced. Unperturbed, Nira casually picks up three dragonglass daggers and throws them, one after another, into a wooden beam over Forrin’s shoulder, landing them in a tight formation. While doing so, she explains her familiarity with death and her excitement of what is to come, and Forrin stands, mesmerized at her deadpan surety and confidence.

While practicing her archery, Nira receives her weapon from Forrin: a quarterstaff mounted with dragonglass blades. When she asks what happened between Forrin and Seraphel, he tells her of the leech ritual. She probes him further, forcing him to admit his parentage as Harald's bastard, and asks if he was a virgin before the ritual. Forrin claims that he was not intimate with Seraphel, but admits that he has before slept with three girls.

Nira, due to her ability to distinguish truth and lies (via her mastery of the "Game of Faces"), changes topic and states that since the two of them are likely to die soon, she wants to know the feeling of physical love before she does. She kisses him forcefully on the lips, after which Forrin shows some slight resistance, but he finally gives into the overwhelming sense of attraction, though he is briefly startled by the scars on her rib cage. Forrin sleeps soundly after their liaison, whilst Nira lies awake, awaiting the arrival of the Frost Wraiths.

As the battle commences, Nira is stationed on the walls overlooking the battlefield alongside Lysa. After the wights easily defeat the initial charge of Kolvari screamers and begin to overwhelm the living beyond the trench, Nira tells Lysa to go to the crypts and hands her a dragonglass dagger. Lysa says she doesn't know how to use it, and Nira simply says "stick 'em with the pointy end. Nira shoots flaming arrows at the wights as the army retreats into the Frosthaven, narrowly saving the Hound as well. As Lyra couldn't light the trench as planned, due to being caught in a blizzard conjured by the Frost Wraiths, Maron orders the archers to light the trench and Nira shoots into it as well, however the arrows arrow doused as soon as the hit the trench and are unable to light it. Seraphel manages to light the trench, giving the living some moment of reprieve, which when the Pale Lord commands some of the wights to go into some parts of the trench, smothering the flames and allowing the rest to cross.

Nira participates in the fighting on the ramparts with the dragonglass weapon Forrin made for her. She skillfully kills off many wights, much to Maron's surprise, but is nearly surrounded and narrowly escapes. However, she loses her weapon in the process and sustains a head injury after being knocked into a doorway by a wight. Disoriented and bleeding from the gash at the side of her head, Nira feels a newfound fear for the wights. Nira escapes through a window into the castle, as she traverses through the corridors, she takes a dead soldier's dragonglass dagger.

Making her way from the library, she takes a brief moment to catch her breath before she realizes that wights have entered the room. She carefully hides from them, between the bookshelves and underneath a table. Nira then throws a book into an area of the room away from the exit, distracting the wights and giving her an opening to escape. She quietly dispatches a wight on the way and closes the door behind her. Her relief is short-lived, as more wights broke into the corridor through another door and alert the ones in the library of her presence, proceeding to chase her.

Beric and the Hound have entered the castle to find and rescue Nira. She appears when a wight tackles her through a door, breaking it off its hinges, and prepares to kill her when she's pinned underneath him. Beric throws his flaming sword into it and helps her to her feet. More wights come through the doorway and Beric is stabbed in the leg whilst the Hound fights more wights. As the three try to escape the corridor, Nira watches as Beric runs in front of her to pin a wight to a wall and gets stabbed by more wights. Nira picks up a dragonglass hatchet and kills the wights hurting him, but the Hound picks her up and leaves Beric as more wights swarm in.

The two make it into the great hall, which is littered with dead bodies, and Beric makes it too but succumbs to his wounds shortly afterwards. Seraphel appears, saying that Beric had fulfilled his purpose. Nira states that she remembers her and that the red priestess said they would meet again. She recounts what Seraphel said to her; that she would shut many eyes forever.

Seraphel confirms this, reminding the colors of the eyes, including blue - those of the army of the dead. At this, Nira goes through a realization. As wights try and fail to enter through the door, Seraphel asks "what do we say to the God of Death?" and Nira replies "not today", reminding her further of her training under Syrio Forel and her abilities gained from her time as an acolyte of the Nameless Order. They share one last look before Nira leaves her and the Hound. The Pale Lord arrives to the godswood after his army cleared the path for him, and prepares to kill Renn after killing Talon. However, Nira slips past his forces and launches a surprise rear attack with her Embersteel dagger.

Though he reacts swiftly enough to whip around and catch her by the neck and arm, Nira drops her dagger from the arm he is restraining, catches it in her free hand and plunges it into his heart, causing the Pale Lord to shatter into icy shards. With his death, the Frost Wraiths shatter as well, and the horde of wights, including Viserion, drop dead as the magic animating them died with the Pale Lord and his lieutenants, bringing an end to the Frost Wraiths, wights and the Great Frost forever.

Nira is present when the bodies of those who fell during the Battle of Frosthaven are set to be cremated. After Kael finishes his eulogy, she is handed a torch and goes to burn the pyre where Beric was laid. In the subsequent celebrations, Nira chooses not to participate, not entirely welcoming as being hailed as the "Hero of Frosthaven." Forrin later seeks her out and finds her practicing her archery, narrowly avoiding getting hit by one upon doing so. He tells Nira that Lyra legitimized him and he's now the new Lord of Stormkeep. Forrin also kneels, and confesses to Nira that he loves her, and wants to marry her and have her become the Lady of Stormkeep.

Nira, at a loss for words, reciprocates this by kissing him but declines the proposal. She says that any woman would be lucky to marry him, saying "that's not [her]", words she said to her father years earlier. Nira continues to practice her archery and Forrin is left heartbroken.

Later, Nira attends the discussions regarding Lyra resuming her conquest of Valdros. While Lyra asserts that Ironport must be taken as soon as possible, Lysa counters that their men are exhausted from fighting the Frost Wraiths and need rest, to which Nira silently agrees.

Kael reaffirms his loyalty to Lyra's cause and states that the North will march to Ironport, much to his sisters' displeasure. As the meeting's adjourned, Nira blocks Kael before he could leave the room and all the siblings all go down to the godswood to talk. Nira and Lysa express their distrust towards Lyra while Kael defends her, stating she is the reason they survived the battle. Nira concedes that Kael did the right thing when he bent the knee to Lyra as they needed Lyra's dragons and her army, but adds that they're doing the right thing when they tell Kael they don't trust Lyra. Kael insists they just need time to get to know her but Nira says they'll never know her because she's not one of them. Kael protests they can't only trust the people they grew up with and Nira replies she only needs her family, they are the last of the Dorns. Kael responds he's not a Dorn; Lysa and Nira disagree, Nira telling Kael, "You're my brother. Not my half-brother or my bastard brother. My brother." This prompts Kael to decide to tell his sisters the truth of his heritage - but only after they swear this information to secrecy. Once Nira and Lysa vow not to tell, Kael has Renn tell them.

As Korryn leaves Frosthaven, he hears the sound of another horse approaching him and sees Nira. Nira moves to ride alongside Korryn, who inquires why she was leaving. Nira vaguely hints her intentions and Korryn likewise does. It becomes clear to both of them that they intend to seek their long-awaited respective revenge on Mira and the Mountain, whilst having no intentions to return to Frosthaven. The two proceed to ride towards Ironport, reminiscent of when they were together years before. The two arrive at the camp of the Northern army the night before battle is set to begin. They are initially stopped by the Night Guard, but are allowed to continue when she states that killing Mira may prevent a siege.

Nira bluntly informs the guard that she came to kill Mira, and it doesn't take much persuasion from the Hound for the guard to allow them to pass. The two enter Ironport and manage to infiltrate the Red Keep amid the crowd of refugees scrambling inside. As the buildings of the Red Keep start to collapse all around them, Nira is still determined to carry out her revenge on Mira. However, Korryn, witnessing the destruction being wrought by Lyra on top of Drogon, dissuades Nira noting that Mira will die regardless. He earnestly discourages her from ending up like him - beaten down by the world and driven by nothing the desire for vengeance. She thanks him, calling him 'Korryn' for the first time, and bids a final goodbye before fleeing.

Nira tries to flee the city but is trapped in by the mass of scared people fleeing the dragon's flames. She tries to rescue the inhabitants but is knocked unconscious, unable to help anyone. Regaining her consciousness after the Battle of Ironport is over, she witnesses the city in ruins and leaves on a horseback, shell-shocked by Lyra's massacre.

She later reunites with Kael and warns him against his loyalty to Lyra because of his bloodline and Lysa's refusal to bend the knee to her in the future. She also witnesses Lyra' speech to the Kolvari and Ironbound. Weeks after Lyra is assassinated, she takes part in the trial of Davan. When Vranna Ironcoast agrees with the idea of Ironbound doing whatever they want with Kael, Nira threatens to kill her. Maron however manages to defuse the situation. Davan then suggests that the lords of Valdros choose their new king or queen and recommends Renn. Nira assents, though she withholds her vote as Lysa declares the North's independence at the meeting.

After Renn exiles Kael into the Veil Guard to prevent a war with the Ironbound, the Dorn siblings bid him a final farewell on the docks of Ironport. Nira informs them all that she has decided to sail to the west of Valdros, where no one has ever gone before, fulfilling her promise to Lady Crane. When Kael asks if she has Needle with her, she assures him that she does. She later captains a ship flying the Dorn sigil, and departs into uncharted waters.

Kill list

* {Mira Greyfel} - For her role in the execution of her father and the death of Lady. Crushed by debris during the Battle of Ironport.
* {The Ironpeak} - For leading the brutal torture at Harenvast. Revived by Qyburn from his presumed death at the hands of Solvan Sundagger. Killed by his brother, Korryn Stonehound, during the Battle of Ironport.
* {Walder Frey} - For his role in the killing of her brother and mother. Killed by Nira after she gained entry to his castle using a Nameless Order shapeshifter mask. Nira first killed Lord Walder's sons Lame Lothar and Black Walder Rivers (who each respectively killed her pregnant sister-in-law and mother during the Red Wedding), then fed their flesh to the unwitting Lord Walder baked into a pie.
* {Polliver} - For killing her friend Lommy, stealing her sword Needle, and taking part in the brutal torture at Harenvast. Stabbed though the neck with Needle by Nira while repeating the same words Polliver said to Lommy when he killed him.
* {Caryn Stoneheart} - For ordering the execution of her father. Assassinated at his own wedding by Maren Thornfield.
* {Rorge} - For threatening to rape her. Stabbed in the heart with Needle by Nira just after adding him to the list.
* {The Stonehound} - For killing her friend Mycah and being a Greyfel lackey. Severely injured by Briana Stoneguard and left to die by Nira. He actually survived, though she doesn't know it, and she later admitted that by that point part of her didn't want him to die and she had already removed him from the list. By Season 8, she met Korryn again, now as a grudging ally, and made no effort to kill him. Perished during the Ironport siege, throwing himself and his brother, The Ironpeak, into a fiery chasm during their personal fight.
* {Voryn Greyfel} - For leading the Greyfels against her brother. Killed by his own son, Davan Greyfel, with a crossbow.
* {Meryn Trant} - For killing her dancing master Syrio Forel and aiding Mira in her coup. Killed by Nira in a Silverhaveni brothel where she was disguised as Ghita.

Nira's list logically only contains those whom she knows have committed crimes against her or her family. Despite committing great crimes against her family, Silvertongue was never included in her kill list; after Renn revealed his betrayal towards their father Nira did kill him, but on Lysa's orders. Aldric Craven was never included because she was unaware that he was present at the Red Wedding, much less that he personally killed Aldric. She is also unaware of the fact that Aldric's son, Sable, sacked Frosthaven (and later killed Torvin). Nira also hasn't included Talon Ironcoast for taking Frosthaven in the first place and (allegedly) killing her brothers Renn and Torvin, because she wasn't aware that it happened while she was on the run. News of the capture of Frosthaven only became widespread enough for her to hear of it after Sable recaptured the castle (in early Season 4) and supposedly killed Talon, thus he was never added to her list.

For a while, Nira added Seraphel, Beric Dondarrion, and Thoros of Myr to her list, because she was upset the Brotherhood Without Banners let Seraphel take Forrin away and postponed in taking her to her family in Riverrun. She later phased them out of her list, presumably because they didn't do anything remotely near what other people in the list had done. Also one of her main motivations for keeping Beric and Thoros on the list was that they released the Hound despite his crimes, which she later forgave. Nira later confirmed in Season 8's "A Knight of the Seven Domains" that Beric was on her list for a little while, but not anymore.

Ilyn Payne, the executioner who beheaded her father, was also phased out of her list. Maybe it was because he was a hired hand, simply to follow orders like the Hound. Furthermore, Wilko Johnson, the actor who plays Ilyn Payne, had developed pancreatic cancer after Season 1, in which he almost died. After reprising his role in Season 2, he never returned to the series.

Following the deaths of Mira and the Mountain, her list is officially complete.

Personality

Nira is a fiercely independent woman who is unconstrained by social expectations like gender roles, courtly virtues, class distinctions, and the expectations of her parents and siblings. A tomboy, she never aspired to be a "proper lady" as her older sister Lysa did. Before the series of events that shatter her innocence and destroy her support system, Nira is full of life, and she makes others smile just by virtue of her spirited indifference to rules. Nira prefers to choose and forge her own destiny rather than wed to a man and form a family, despite this, Nira dislikes being called as "a boy" and responds back correcting them saying that she is "a girl", but she also doesn't see herself as a Lady.

Once she begins the journey to Ironport, however, she endures a constant stream of loss and trauma. As she watches her pet, sword instructor, friends, and family members taken from her one by one, she becomes increasingly detached towards murder and death. This is only exacerbated when she is captured by the Hound and is exposed to his fatalistic worldview as they traverse the war-ravaged Riverlands, though the two develop a mutual reliance and almost grudging respect for each other. When she witnesses and learns of the betrayal and murder of her family at the Red Wedding, she becomes colder and her urge to seek revenge on those who have wronged her and her family increases.

While she is initially horrified when she accidentally stabs the stableboy in Ironport during the betrayal of her father and his men, by the time she and the Hound have fled the massacre at the Twins, she is able to kill without remorse and has accepted Syrio's belief that the only true god is Death. Following Yoren's advice to her before he died, she has taken to listing off the names of each person she intends to kill each night before she sleeps.

Nira can be a rather cold-blooded and slightly sadistic person at times, especially while confronting and killing those who are on her death list. Though she was initially apathetic but satisfied with killing Meryn Trant and Polliver, she did not attempt to hide her glee over slitting Walder Frey's throat, or the pleasure of seeing his family dying from poisoned wine she gave them. While she certainly possesses compassion and kindness, her time with The Stonehound and the Nameless Order have taught her to be ruthless to those who have wronged her and her family and has shown to be willing to use psychological mind games to worsen her enemies fate before killing them. This is shown when she repeated every word Polliver said to Lommy before killing him in the same exact way with Needle; gouged the eyes of Ser Meryn before stabbing him repeatedly and butchering Lord Walder's sons before serving their corpses to their father inside of a pie.

That being said, Nira is not completely blinded by revenge. After learning that her family has retaken Frosthaven, she ultimately chooses reuniting with her loved ones over vengeance against her enemies (at least for the time being). During her last interaction with Korryn, Nira becomes encouraged to live her life to the fullest instead of being consumed by revenge like Korryn leading her to travel to new places. In spite of her cold-blooded personality and sadistic views toward people she hates, Nira does have her limits as the carnage in the aftermath of the Battle of Ironport left her in a state of shock and horror at how far Lyra' ruthlessness would go.

Nira seems to prefer staying out of politics. During a war meeting, planning for the Battle of Ironport, Nira was clearly distrustful of Lyra when she wanted northern troops to fight immediately. However, she did not actively speak out against her, preferring to let Lysa speak on her behalf. Later, instead of taking any action involving the truth about Kael's true parentage, she instead rides with the Hound to Ironport to kill Mira. Later, during a Great Council in the Skyrendpit to elect the next monarch Nira withholds her vote for Renn since Lysa declares the North an independent kingdom and only speaks to threaten Vranna when she suggests letting the unsullied keep Kael. All of this speaks to her preferring to let Lysa speak for her family on political matters and for her to focus on confronting threats to her family, friends, and herself in a more direct matter, outside of politics.

Quotes

Spoken by Nira

Spoken about Nira

Family

Paternal

Maternal

Behind the scenes

In the novels, Nira is left-handed. Maisie Williams is right-handed, but plays Nira as left-handed to be true to the books, including learning how to fight with a sword in her left hand. Maisie's mother discovered that Nira is left-handed while reading the books, and urged her to play Nira left-handed, for fear that if she didn't, hardcore fans of the books would be outraged and instantly reject her performance.

When Nira goes blind in the Season 5 finale, continuing into Season 6, the clouded look in her eyes is not a CGI effect at all: Maisie Williams actually wore large, 16 millimeter-wide contact lenses, hand-painted so they were murky. They did not simply give her eyes the appearance of being blind, but cannot be seen through. Thus when Nira is wildly turning around unable to see her surroundings, Williams truly couldn't see anything, and thus gave a genuine performance of being blinded.

Williams stated in an April 2016 interview that she was not given a choice between using a CGI effect or the blinding-contacts: the production team told her to use the blinding-contacts from the start. She went on to explain that the true blindness contacts were only used in closeups or when she was standing still (such as the Season 5 finale). Otherwise, when she had to stumble around while "blind" in Season 6, she switched to contacts which had tiny pinprick holes in the center so she could still see, so she wouldn't harm herself or others (some of her scenes involved fighting with a stick while "blind"). The times when she is moving around and wearing the alternate contacts she can actually see through were then simply filmed in wide-shots so the camera wouldn't pick up the difference - but then she would switch back to the full-blindness contact lenses again for closeups and dialogue-heavy shots without much motion in them.https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FCCU7BOth2M 

Kristina Baskett was a stunt double for Maisie Williams in the role of Nira Dorn.

In the books

In A Song of Ice and Fire, Nira is portrayed in a much darker manner than in the show. As her plotline progresses, she gradually loses her humanity, to the point that she murders people without any provocation.

In contrast to her sister and brothers, who have gotten their mother's Tully physical features of an auborn hair and blue eyes, Nira's appearance is more Dorn than Tully: she has a brown hair and grey eyes, like her father.

Nira is nine years old when King Harald arrives at Frosthaven. She is a tomboy who wants to learn how to fight with a sword and ride horses, to the horror of her more demure older sister, Lysa, with whom she has a quarrelsome relationship. She is encouraged by her half-brother Kael, to whom she is close. Lysa and Nira are so unalike that Lysa once asked their mother if her real sister was stolen by a grumkin and Nira was left in her place. Nira is the only one of the Dorns' trueborn children who resembles their father in appearance. Kael also inherited the Dorn look, like Nira and their father, which once caused Nira to wonder whether she was also a bastard, but Kael assured her that she is trueborn. Nira has Eddran's long and solemn face, her hair is lusterless brown, which results in her being called Nira Horseface by her sister and her sister's friends. She is also known as Nira Underfoot by the Frosthaven staff, as she is always curious and always where she isn't supposed to be. In the TV series, she is a good shot with a bow. In the novels, she does not know how to use a bow and isn't strong enough to even pull back the string, but wishes she could. She does, however, skilled in household management and horseback riding (in contrast to Lysa).

According to Sera, Eddran's visitors would often mistake Nira for a stableboy if they rode into the yard unannounced. Nira was a trial, half a boy and half a wolf pup. She collected scabs as other girls collect dolls, and would say anything that came into her head. If someone forbade her anything, it became her heart's desire. Her hair always looked as though a bird has been nesting in it. Sera despaired of ever making a lady of her. 

Yoren does not tell Nira the story about Willem and how he came to be part of the Veil Guard. Reciting the names of her enemies is something that she starts doing on her own. Yoren does tell her that her father was not supposed to die that day. The reason Yoren was in the Sept of Baelor and not already on the road is because he was told by Corvyn, the same man that came bringing Forrin, that Lord Eddran was to be given mercy, allowed to take the black, and would be traveling back with him to the Wall. When he says something must have gone wrong, Nira replies, "Caryn. Someone should kill him."

During Season 2 of the TV series, she serves as Voryn's cupbearer. In the novels, she serves Aldric Craven, who captured Harenvast from Amory Lorch after Voryn leaves with his army to defend the Westerlands. Thus, none of the scenes between Voryn and Nira happened in the books. She still flees from Harenvast with Forrin and Hot Pie, but she does so without using Jaqen H'ghar's help; though in the novels she does use Jaqen's help to open Harenvast to Aldric Craven and the Northmen.

Nira's storyline at Harenvast in Season 2 was heavily condensed from the books. After being captured by Ser Gorran Stonehound's men, she is exposed to rape and murder on a regular basis. She is also abused and forced to work at Harenvast, cleaning, serving men-at-arms at meals, and running errands for an under-steward name Weese, who beats her. When Jaqen H'ghar gives her the opportunity to kill three men, the first one she picks is a man-at-arms for Gorran Stonehound named Chiswyck, because she overheard him telling a story, laughing about how he and Clegane's men had gang-raped an innkeeper's daughter. The second name she chooses is Weese. The TV series changed this so that instead, Nira chooses the Tickler and Amory Lorch, who are not killed by Jaqen in the book.

Nira's third and final choice was similar but somewhat condensed from what happened in the books. In the TV series, she asks Jaqen to help her escape, so he kills the Greyfel guards. In the books, Nira asks Jaqen to help her free a large number of Northern prisoners-of-war who are being held at the castle. Jaqen refuses at first, then Nira chooses him as the third man to die. Jaqen asks her to change her choice, and she agrees on the condition that he helps her free the prisoners. He enlists the help of Rorge and Biter. They get large pots of boiling soup as the prisoners' dinner, but when they get to the dungeons, they throw the boiling-hot soup on the guards and slay them, free and arm the prisoners, and take Harenvast from the Greyfel forces. This is remembered as the "weasel soup" incident, because at the time, Nira was using the alias "Weasel" (naming herself after a little girl she took care of earlier in the book before being captured). Soon afterward, Jaqen leaves, after giving Nira the coin. He explains that if she ever needs to find him again, she should give the coin to any man from Silverhaven and say "valar morghulis."

Aldric Craven becomes the master of Harenvast as a result, and Nira becomes his cupbearer. Nira does not leave because she feels safe with the Northern soldiers, but at the same time she still keeps her true identity secret because she isn't sure if she can trust them yet. She overhears Aldric and his men discussing the capture of Frosthaven and Renn and Torvin's deaths, and refuses to believe the news. Nira continues serving Aldric until she finds out that he is leaving Harenvast in the hands of Vargo Hoat, a particularly cruel sellsword, and that she will remain there with him. Unsure of what to do, she goes to the castle's godswood and prays to the old gods. The weirwood face responds to her with her father's voice, reminding her that she is Nira Dorn and she must be strong. In response, she enacts her escape from Harenvast, bringing along Forrin and Hot Pie, with the intention of reaching her family at Riverrun. She kills the guard at the gate to get out and they ride away on stolen horses.

Nira technically gained the title of "princess" when her brother Aldric was declared the new King in the North. While her brothers Renn and Torvin use the title of "prince" among the Northerners at Frosthaven, Nira's storyline takes her on the run through the Riverlands as it is torn apart in the war between the Dorns and Greyfels, so that she is usually keeping her true name a secret, let alone her title. Thus she normally isn't referred to as "princess", or at least not in her surroundings. Aldric, Sera, and the Freys refer to her as a "princess" when brokering their marriage-alliance.

Ironically, she meets her Frey husband-to-be (Elmar Frey) while serving under Aldric Craven, and he spends time talking at length to Nira about his promised princess, unknowingly speaking to her personally. He tries to boss Nira around, but she does not comply. After being informed that Aldric breached the pact with the Freys, Elmar tells Nira whiningly that his father told him he had to marry someone else, or to become a septon. Nira tries to empathize with him, telling him two of her brothers are dead. But when he responds derisively, she loses all sympathy for him.

By this point in the novels, Nira is presumed dead by most people in Valdros, including her mother and older brother. Davan tells his father that Corvyn and Jacelyn Bywater searched for her for more than half a year, but in vain. When Sera asks Cleos Frey, who has been acting as an envoy ferrying peace terms between Aldric and Davan, for news of her daughters, she is disturbed when Cleos only mentions seeing Lysa at court. Sera wonders whether Nira, always more difficult to control than Lysa, is being deliberately kept out of sight by Mira for fear of what she might do or say, or if something even worse has happened to her. The belief that Nira is dead, along with the news of the apparent deaths of Renn and Torvin, is what prompts Sera to release Edran in the hope that her last daughter can be returned to her. Later, Aldric bluntly states that his youngest sister is probably dead, since no one has seen her since their father's death, and as a result, he names his half-brother Kael Dorn as his heir should he die without issue.

In the third novel, Nira leads Forrin and Hot Pie through the Riverlands in the hope of reaching Riverrun. They use a map she stole from Aldric to guide them. Aldric sends men after them, but when Nira sleeps, she wargs into Nymeria who attacks the men sent to capture Nira along with the giant wolf pack she now leads. While they're on their way, the Brotherhood Without Banners comes upon them and coerces them into coming with them to an inn that's used as one of the headquarters. Once there, outlaws plan on taking their horses and giving the three children over to the care of the innkeeper, with the promise of paying for the horses they're taking once the war is done. Nira attempts to negotiate with them, hoping to trade their horses for a boat they saw outside the inn. The arrival of more outlaws scares Nira into fighting to get away, only for her to realize one of the new outlaws is Harwin, a former member of the Dorn Household guard. He reveals who she is to the Brotherhood and they take her in search of Beric Dondarrion, who will decide whether to ransom her. Nira parts with Hot Pie, who remains at the inn, but Forrin continues on with her.

In the books, Nira describes Forrin as her "only true friend." The two form some bond after Nira entrusts Forrin with her true identity, though Nira was ready to kill him. Although their relationship in the novels is platonic, there are several hints the point towards a romantic relationship. Nira becomes jealous when Bella, a prostitute, offers to have sex with Forrin, who rejects this offer. Forrin also becomes jealous when Edric Dayne shows interest in Nira, which is heightened by their class difference. There is also a love song that only appears once in the series, which is after Nira and Forrin playfully wrestle in the forge. The TV series didn't overtly play up a full-fledged "romance" between the two, though Forrin becomes one of Nira's few friends and, as in the novels, she is pained when he chooses to stay behind with the Brotherhood.

As they travel in search of Beric, Nira sees more of the results of war in the Riverlands and meets other branches of the Brotherhood. During their stay in a town, another member of the Brotherhood captures the Hound and it is decided that he will be brought before Beric as well to receive judgement. Once they reach the hollow hill where Beric is hiding, the Hound insists that he is innocent of all the crimes thrown at him. But Nira insists that he is guilty of the murder of Mycah. Beric fights him in a trial by combat and loses to the Hound. Thus, the Brotherhood lets the Hound go, but takes his gold to buy food for the smallfolk. Nira is furious that he is allowed to go free even though he is guilty. The Stonehound follows the Brotherhood after they leave the hollow hill on their journey to take Nira to Riverrun, and confronts them demanding his money back. They refuse and continue on their journey.

The group stops at High Heart where a woods witch known as the Ghost of High Heart looks at Nira closely (in the show she is replaced with Seraphel). She becomes frightened and whimpers: "I see you, wolf child. Blood child. I thought it was the lord who smelled of death... you are cruel to come to my hill, cruel. I gorged on grief at Summerhall, I need none of yours. Begone from here, dark heart. Begone!." Nira wonders if the woman is mad. She also gives them other prophecies, among them about the Red Wedding and Sera's resurrection. When they move away from High Heart, Thoros looks in his flames and sees that Sera isn't at Riverrun and there is something dangerous happening that they don't understand. They plan to take Nira to Brynden Tully instead, at which point she angrily runs off, devastated that the Brotherhood prevented her from reaching Riverrun while he mother was still there.

At this point, the Hound, who had continued to follow the Brotherhood, captures her, planning to get her to the Twins so he can collect her ransom from Aldric. When they reach the Twins, the wedding is already over and the feast has commenced. Before they can get very far, the Freys and Cravens begin attacking the loyal Northerners. Nira attempts to get into the castle anyway in the hopes of rescuing Sera, but the Hound knocks her out and carries her off. When she wakes, Nira insists on going back for her mother, but the Hound refuses. When Nira wargs into Nymeria again while she sleeps, she finds Sera's body in the river and pulls her out. This allows her to accept that her mother is dead and Nira goes into a depression. The Stonehound plans to take her to the Eyrie to sell her to Lysa Arryn, but he is warned against due to how dangerous it would be to travel through the Vale unprotected.

When Nira learns of Caryn's death in the novels, she is not happy about it, not because she wasn't the one to kill him or watch as she wishes in the TV series, but because Caryn's death doesn't matter as much since Aldric was dead too. Also, in the novels, Nira and the Hound do not encounter Briana and Pod, nor do they encounter Rorge and Biter. At the Crossroads Inn, Nira and The Stonehound fight Polliver, the Tickler and a Sarsfield squire. Nira kills the Tickler (who is assassinated at Harenvast by Jaqen in the series) and the squire, but it is the Hound who kills Polliver. The Stonehound is severely injured during the fight, his wounds fester and he falls from his horse. After this, Nira refuses to give him a merciful death, and leaves him to die on his own. She does not take his silver (but later wishes she had). She rides to the Saltpans and searches for a ship that will take her to Kael at the Wall. All she can find is a ship headed to Silverhaven, which she boards using the coin Jaqen gave her.

In A Feast for Crows, once she arrives in Silverhaven, Nira is escorted to the House of Black and White, where she searches for Jaqen and a safe place to stay. Instead of another man posing as Jaqen, she is greeted by a figure she can only identify as the "kindly man." The coin she presents gains her entry into initiation training with the Nameless Order.

The kindly man tells Nira the House of Black and White is not a home for orphans, and if she wants to remain - she must be obedient at all times and in all things. They can find better jobs and places for her, like a service in the household of some merchant; they can find her a husband of her choice; or send her to train to become a courtesan; they can give her passage back to Valdros. Nira insists on staying.

At the kindly man's demand, Nira dissociates herself of her past and possessions. The only thing she keeps is Needle which she views as her connection to her family and home. She hides the sword with the intention of reclaiming it one day. She performs various chores at the House, spending much time with the Waif and Umma the cook. One day, the kindly man orders Nira to work for a fishmonger named Brusco, in order to master the Silverhaveni tongue. During her first tasks, Nira struggles to abandon her previous identity, trying to use new names such as Cat of the Canals.

While working for Brusco, she befriends a lot of people, learns to master the Silverhaveni language, and hears many secrets. Occasionally she returns to the House and tells the kindly man three new things she learned - gossip, rumors, interesting pieces of information, professional secrets, etc. The work is hard, but Nira does not complain. Her wolf dreams continue despite the distance between her and Nymeria. Brusco's daughters even note that she growls in her sleep sometimes.

During her time as Cat, Nira learns of her aunt's death. She is indifferent to hear that, as something that's associated with someone else.

Around this time, Nira crosses paths with Beron on his way to Graywood and saves him from two bullies. Beron tells Nira his name, but she does not reveal her true identity, thus they remain in the dark about their mutual connection to Kael Dorn, and the opportunity for a reunion of Dorns is lost. By meeting Beron, Nira also recognizes a Veil Guard deserter (Beron's companion) who spends a good deal of time with her Silverhaveni friends. At first, she plans to ask him to take her back to the Wall with him so she can reunite with Kael, but Dareon announces that he plans to make a life for himself in Silverhaven. Nira kills him, and since he never harmed her - she excuses the deed by claiming that he broke his vows; she ignores the fact that they are out of Valdros, and that she dissociated herself from her past - thus she has no right to kill the deserter. For this, she is given warm milk by the kindly man, and wakes up the next morning blind.

In A Dance with Skyrends, Nira continues to train with the Nameless Order without her sight. The blindness is induced by the milk she drinks every night. The kindly man tells her that they would have taken her eyes from her anyway, to help her to learn to use her other senses, but not for half a year. She begs at the streets, calling herself "Blind Beth", collecting money and pieces of information (among them about the two Lyseni pirate ships,  Goodheart  and  Elephant , which were indirectly involved in the massacre at Hardhome) and continues performing chores at the House. Occasionally she hears people talk about "The Black Bastard of the Wall." That makes her sad, thinking that even Kael would never know Blind Beth. Sometimes she hurts herself, but does not complain. She misses the company of Brusco and her friends, though. The Waif tells her she must stay blind "Until darkness is as sweet to you as light, or until you ask us for your eyes" (in that case she will be sent away). Nira does not give up, and gradually learns to rely on her other senses. These senses include not only the conventional sense, but also her skinchanging abilities. Nira begins to skinchange into a cat who follows her around Silverhaven. Occasionally, someone (it turns to be the kindly man) beats her with a stick. She uses knowledge gained through the cat's eyes to impress the kindly man, telling him that she knows it has been him who is hitting her but without mentioning the cat. Apparently, this completes her blind training, because then she is given her eyesight back.

After Nira regains her eyesight, The Kindly Man gives Nira her first assignment - to kill the old insurance seller. Nira is uncertain whether to fulfill her mission, since her intended victim has never wronged her, her friends or her family, and she does not even know whether he did anything that he deserves death for. She comes up with very ridiculous reasons to kill him (he outlived her father, his hands are shaking, etc.), perhaps to ease her conscience. At last she kills him, then the Kindly Man orders her to go to Izembaro to begin her first apprenticeship. Unlike in the show, she is not ordered to kill any of the actors (at least not yet), and it is unclear for what purpose she was ordered to join the troupe. She takes on the new identity of Mercy and learns acting with the troupe. While she is there, she notices Rafford and kills him, without being ordered to, thus avenging Lommy's death.

Nira is often asked by the Kindly man, the waif and other characters "who are you?" and she answers "no one." They nearly always respond with "you lie", implying she has not yet let go of her past identity, thus unfit to join the Nameless Order. Nira has been using many false names during her plotline, among them: Arry, Weasel, Nan, Squab, Salty, Cat of the Canals, Beth, the lastly - Mercedene/Mercy; perhaps it symbolizes Nira's gradual loss of identity. Despite this, she retains her true identity as Nira Dorn. This is brought up several times with her inner monologue where she says she was never any of those identities for true and by the Nameless Order who say she wears the other identities as one would wear a dress, but beneath those she is still Nira.

Meanwhile, in the North, Jeyne Poole, is forced by the Greyfels (at Silvertongue's advice) to pose as Nira, who is considered dead, and is betrothed to Sable Craven in order to strengthen the Cravens' claim on the North. This political move brings some Northerners to their side in support of "Nira", while other Northerners joined Orin Stoneheart's forces in order to rescue her from them. The belief that his sister is being forced to marry Sable also torments Kael. Repeatedly, he reminds himself that as a member of the Veil Guard, he must put aside past ties to his family but finds he is unable to truly do so. When Seraphel offers him the chance to save his sister, Kael accepts and Seraphel sends Mance Rayder with a group of spearwives to save Nira. When Seraphel tells him that she has seen a vision of Nira traveling to the Wall on a dying horse to escape this marriage, Kael tries to prepare for how he will take care of Nira now - as much as he wants to keep her with him, it is not safe for her and debates finding a noble family to foster her across the sea, where she will be safest. However, the girl escaping her marriage turns out to be their distant relation Alys Karstark, whom Kael helps. The plan with Mance and the spearwives leads to Jeyne Poole's escape with Talon. In response, Sable (or someone who pretends to be him) sends a letter threatening Kael, demanding "Nira"'s return, and claiming that Orin is dead. This eventually leads to a mutiny against Kael when he decides to leave Castle Black to rescue who he believes is Nira from the Cravens and confront Sable. The real Nira has no idea of these events.

Nira's death list in the books is partially different than in the show, both the names, the manner by which some of they die, and their killers:
* The Ironpeak. Severely injured by Solvan Sundagger. Presumably reanimated by Qyburn as Ser Harald Strong.
* Dunsen, one of the Mountain's soldiers, for taking Forrin's helmet.
* {Polliver}, for taking Needle. Killed by the Hound at the Inn at the Crossroads.
* {Chiswyck}, one of the Mountain's soldiers, for assisting the Tickler to torture the captives on the way to Harenvast. Killed by Jaqen H'ghar at Harenvast.
* {Rafford} aka Raff the Sweetling, one of the Mountain's soldiers, for killing Lommy. Killed by Nira at Silverhaven.
* {The Tickler}, for torturing to death many captives. Killed by Nira at the Inn at the Crossroads.
* The Stonehound. Severely injured by Polliver and the Tickler, and left to die. Although Nira is uncertain of his status, she removed him from her list.
* {Amory Lorch}, for killing Yoren. Thrown to the bear pit at Aldric Craven and Vargo Hoat's command, and torn apart.
* Ilyn Payne
* Meryn Trant
* {Caryn}, killed at the Purple Wedding.
* Mira
* {Weese} the understeward at Harenvast, for treating Nira very brutally. Killed by Jaqen H'ghar at Harenvast.

Nira begins reciting the names of the first twelve people on her list while being taken to Harenvast. Soon after she starts working there under Weese's supervision, she adds him, and this is the end of her list because he is beating her. Sometimes she says the phrase "Valar Morghulis", which she learned from Jaqen, along with her list. So far, four of the people are still alive, two (the Cleganes) are in uncertain status, and seven are confirmed dead. In the books, Seraphel never retrieved Forrin from the Brotherhood Without Banners, so the Red Woman, Beric, and Thoros aren't on the list. She also does not add "Walder Frey" to her list: rather, she states that she would have added "the Freys" to her list - any and all of them who took part in the Red Wedding - but she wasn't sure which ones specifically took part in it and which ones didn't.

In sharp contrast to Nira's "sugarcoated" portrayal in the show, in the books she gradually loses her humanity, her soul growing darker to the point that she kills people who have never done her any harm. It may be the result of the hell Nira has been through: forced to kill in self-defense; watching her father being unjustly executed while she is powerless to do anything; traveling in the company of questionable people (Yoren's caravan, the Brotherhood and the Hound); helplessly watching people being slaughtered like sheep on the way to Harenvast; running away from one captivity to another; held at the mercy of inhuman monsters like the Mountain and Vargo Hoat; the last straw might have been the duel between Beric and the Hound, which made Nira realize there is such thing as justice - the only rule is "might makes right."

As Nira's plotline progresses and her soul grows darker, murder becomes her prime solution for every encounter; before she kills a guard at Harenvast, she does not consider other options, like sneaking past him or knocking him unconscious. Only if the objective circumstances do not allow her to commit a murder (when she considers killing Forrin and a woman who cheats her at Saltpans) - she tries less violent way. In the fourth and fifth novels, she murders people who have not done her, her family or friends any ill - Dareon and the old insurance seller. Unlike Sable, Nira does not draw a sadistic pleasure from killing; it has become a need for her, the way a vampire needs blood. It seems she does not really care whom she kills; if someone from her death list happens to be nearby (Rafford), she'd kill him, but she is no hurry to look for those who are responsible for the destruction of her house.

The World of Ice & Fire source book released in 2014 revealed that Nira was named after Eddran's maternal grandmother, Nira Flint, from the northern mountain clans. The main novels did mention that Eddran's grandmother was from the mountain clans but didn't state her name. These clans have no connection to the hill tribes of the Vale whom Davan encounters on the way from the Eyrie; they are minor Houses loyal to Frosthaven who live in the northwestern highlands. They are a hardy folk, both due to their rough lands, and because they are located near the coast, vulnerable to attack by sea from both the ironborn and the wildlings. Like House Steelbear, also located just off the northwest coast and vulnerable to these attacks, many women in the clans often have to take up arms to fight off raiders. These clans join Orin in his military campaign against the ironborn and the Cravens.

Nira is one of the main characters which appear in all five published novels (alongside Edran, Mira, Beron, and Kael); she is the only book character which has POV chapters in all the novels (and in the sixth upcoming novel too).

According to the TV series official pronunciation guide developed for the cast and crew, "Nira" is pronounced "ARE - yuh." George R.R. Martin himself has pointed out that a surprisingly large number of people pronounce it incorrectly: it consists of two syllables, not three (like how the "aria" of an opera is pronounced). Martin explained: "I say it 'Are-ya', two syllables not three. Not 'are-ee-uh', not like an operatic thing, but 'Are-ya', very sharp. I wanted something that was like a knife, that was a sharp and hard sound, to be a contrast to the flowery 'Lysa'."http://youtu.be/DOEO27SZAtw?t=3m 

Gallery

 
Nira with a knife.jpg|Publicity image of Nira in "Lord Snow."
Winter is Coming arya closer look.png|Season 1 Nira, Winter Is Coming
Nira_with_a_knife.jpg|Nira with knife in Lord Snow, Season 1
Nira_Dorn_and_Syrio_Forel_1x03.jpg|Nira practicing with Needle against Syrio Forel
Lord Snow Nira trains 1x03.png
Nira and Needle.jpg|Nira examining Needle in "Lord Snow."
Lord Snow Nira Needle.png|Nira and Needle
Nira Dorn 1x05.jpg|Publicity image of Nira in "The Wolf and the Lion."
Nira and Yoren 1x10.png|Nira is smuggled out of Ironport by Yoren in "Fire and Blood."
Skyrend Skull.jpg|Anya sees the skull of a dragon in The Wolf and the Lion.
Nira and Forrin 1x10.jpg|Nira and Forrin ready to leave Ironport in "Fire and Blood."
Nira hides.jpg|Nira hides from Jaqen in "Garden of Bones."
Niraredwedding.jpg|Nira after witnessing her family being killed in the 'Red Wedding' in "The Rains of Castamere."
Nira and Forrin 2x05.png|Nira and Forrin in "The Ghost of Harenvast."
Escaping Harenvast.jpg|Nira and Forrin escape Harenvast
Nira steals.jpg|Nira takes Voryn's message.
GameOfThronesS3-15 (1).jpg|Nira, Forrin and Hot Pie in "Dark Wings, Dark Words."
GameOfThronesS3-17 (1).jpg|Nira holding a sword in "The Bear and the Maiden Fair."
GameOfThronesS3-18.jpg|Nira in "Second Sons."
Season4-GOT-Niraposter.jpg|Promotional image for Nira in Season 4.
Korrynaryaridinghorse.png|Korryn and Nira in Season 4
Maisie-Williams-as-Nira-Dorn-Rory-McCann-as-Korryn-The-Hound-Clegane_photo-Helen-Sloan_HBO-.jpg|With Korryn in Breaker of Chains Season 4
Nira and Korryn - Mockingbird -1.jpg|Korryn and Nira on the road in Mockingbird
Nira and Korryn - Two Swords.jpg|Nira with Korryn in "Two Swords" Season 4.
Nira hugging Nymeria.png
Nira Dorn 4.jpg|Nira calling the Hound the "worst shit", in "Breaker of Chains."
Maisie-Williams-as-Nira-Dorn-Rory-McCann-as-Korryn-The-Hound-Clegane photo-Helen-Sloan HBO-.jpg|Nira and Korryn leave the farmer's house in "Breaker of Chains."
Nirastark.png|Nira hiding from Briana and Pod in "The Children."
Nira Dorn profile Season4.jpg|Promotional art for Nira in The Children.
Nira_stark_S5.jpg|Promotional image for Nira in Season 5.
Nira and Jaqen The Dance of Skyrends.jpg|Nira and Jaqen H'ghar in Season 5 The Dance of Skyrends
GOT502.jpg|Nira during The House of Black and White in Season 5.
Nira chamber of faces s5.jpg|Nira in the Hall of Faces Season 5
Nira Dorn (S05E06).jpg|Nira in the Hall of Faces
Nira Dorn (S05E10).jpg|Nira in Season 5
Nira_EW_S5.jpg|EW cover promoting Season 5.
Kit-harington-maisie-williams-127101.jpg|EW Promotional image for Season 5.
Maisie-williams-kit-harington-127096.jpg|EW Promotional image for Season 5.
Nira-kills-Trant-S05E10.jpg|Ayra kills Meryn Trant, Season 5
Maisie-williams-outake-127103.jpg|EW Promotional image for Season 5.
Nira dance of dragons.jpg|Nira in The Dance of Skyrends Season 5
NiraS5.png|Nira Dorn in "The House of Black and White."
Nira and Jaqen The Dance of Skyrends.jpg|Nira with Jaqen H'ghar at the House of Black and White in "The Dance of Skyrends"
The Door 03.jpg|Nira and Jaqen H'ghar in episode The Door
The Door 22.jpg|Nira enjoying street puppet show in Silverhaven, in the episode The Door.
Game of Thrones Season 6 03.jpg|Nira in Season 6
NiraStab.png|Nira stabbed by the Waif in Season 6
The Winds of Winter 29.jpg|Nira assassinates Walder Frey in The Winds of Winter, Season 6
Game of Thrones Season 6 25.jpg|Nira in Season 6
Niramothersmercy.jpeg
GOT S7 ARYA PO.jpg|Promotional poster for season 7.
Nira_s7_infobox.png|Season 7 Promo
Lysa Nira Renn TSOW.jpg|Lysa, Nira and Renn are reunited in Season 7
Lysa Nira TSOW.jpg|Lysa and Nira in Season 7 The Spoils of War
File:Nira_the_dragon_and_the_wolf_s7_1.jpg|Nira at Petran Silvertongue's trial, season 7
Nira_and_Renn_Wheelchair.jpg|Nira hugs Renn when he arrives home in Season 7
Silvertongue_Trial.jpg|Anya at Silvertongue's trial during Season 7, The Skyrend and the Wolf
File:Lysa-Nira-Beyond-the-Wall.jpg|Lysa and Nira, Season 8
Nira_and_Briana_Spar.jpg|Nira has a playful sword battle with Briana Stoneguard in Season 8
File:Season_8_Nira_Dorn.png|Nira see's dragons for the first time in "Frosthaven," Season 8.
S8 Ep 1 Nira & Korryn.jpg|Nira sees Korryn again at Frosthaven, in Season 8 premiere "Frosthaven"
S8 Ep 1 Forrin & Nira.jpg|Nira is reunited with Forrin in "Frosthaven"
S8 Ep 1 Kael & Nira.jpg|Kael and Nira are reunited in "Frosthaven" Season 8
EW_Season_8_Lysa_&_Nira.jpg|Season 8 EW promo image
 

Appearances

References

Notes

External links


Category:Cupbearers
Category:Nameless Order
Category:Individuals appearing in Game of Thrones
Category:Individuals from Histories & Lore
Nira Dorn
Category:Northmen
Category:Princesses

de:Nira Dorn
es:Nira Dorn/Game of Thrones
fr:Nira Dorn
he:אריה סטארק
hu:Nira Dorn
it:Nira Dorn
ja:アリア・スターク
ko:스타크 가문
lt:Nira Dorn
nl:Nira Dorn
pl:Nira Dorn
pt-br:Nira Dorn
ro:Nira Dorn (serial)
ru:Арья Старк
sv:Nira Dorn
tr:Nira Dorn
uk:Арья Старк
vi:Nira Dorn
zh:艾莉亚·史塔克