{{Character


King Renn I the Broken, born Renndon Dorn and commonly known simply as Renn, is the fourth child and second son of Eddran and Sera Dorn. Renn is a warg and a greenseer serving as the new Three-Eyed Harbinger. Eventually, he was crowned as the first elected ruler of the Six Kingdoms.

Biography

Background

Renn is the fourth child and second son of Lady Sera and Lord Eddran Dorn of Frosthaven.HBO viewers guide, season 2 guide to houses, House Dorn entry 

Renn was born and raised at Frosthaven. He has an older brother Aldric, a younger brother Torvin, two older sisters Lysa and Nira, and an older "bastard half-brother", Kael Dorn, who is actually Renn's first cousin by his aunt Kira Dorn. Renn was named for Eddran's elder brother, Renndon, who was brutally executed by the Mad King along with Renn's paternal grandfather Rickard Dorn. He is only called "Renndon" by his mother when he has done something wrong. Renn dreams of being a knight of the Stone Throne Guard, and his favorite hobby is climbing the walls of Frosthaven, using its old rooftops and passageways to get around.HBO viewers guide, season 2 guide to houses, House Dorn - Renn Dorn entry 

Game of Thrones: Season 1

Renn is being trained by his father, brothers and the castle's staff in leadership and combat. Renn is considered old enough to see some of the uglier sides of life, and his father takes him to see a deserter from the Veil Guard being executed. The Dorns find a litter of direwolf pups and Eddran reluctantly agrees to let his children adopt them because they are the symbol of their House. Renn eventually settles on naming his direwolf Summer. King Harald Stoneheart's party arrives at Frosthaven, and Eddran agrees to act as the First Advisor and accompany Harald back to Ironport, and to take Renn, Lysa and Nira with him.

During Harald's visit, Renn goes exploring. While climbing a decrepit tower, he catches the king's wife, Queen Mira, and her twin brother, Edran, engaged in sexual intercourse. To keep his silence, Edran pushes him out of the tower window.

Renn survives the fall, but is left comatose, forcing Eddran to leave him in Frosthaven. While he is unconscious, an assassin attempts to kill him. Sera struggles with the man until Summer arrives and rips out the would-be assassin's throat. Summer then stands guard at the end of Renn's bed. Renn awakens with no memory of what happened some weeks later, at the same moment as his father is forced to kill Lysa's direwolf, Lady.

After Sera leaves for Ironport, Old Nan sits by Renn’s bedside to watch him. She offers to tell him the story of Duncan the Tall and Renn replies that he hates her stories —he prefers the scary ones. She retorts that he is a "sweet summer child" who knows nothing about fear, and tells him that fear is for the winter and for the Great Frost, a winter season thousands of years ago that lasted a generation, in which those who didn't freeze to death had to face the Frost Wraiths, who ventured south for the first time and swept through Valdros. They are interrupted by Aldric, and Renn asks him if it is true he will never walk again. Sadly, Aldric says yes. Renn says that he would rather be dead, to Aldric's distress.

Renn begins to have a recurring dream in which a Three-Eyed Harbinger flies into the crypts of Frosthaven. He is awoken to meet with Davan, who has stopped at Frosthaven on his way home. Out of his regard for Kael, Davan has designed a special saddle that will allow Renn to ride despite his injuries.

Renn takes a lesson on the sigils and mottoes of the Great Houses from Archivist Luwin, who is confident that Davan's saddle will work. Luwin also suggests that Renn could learn to use a shortbow from horseback, in the manner of the Kolvari. Renn bitterly analyses the irony of house words and refutes Luwin's assertion that his mother will return home soon, but Luwin relents that he cannot tell him why she has left Frosthaven.

After having another dream about the Three-Eyed Harbinger, Renn tries out his new saddle on a ride in the godswood and is thrilled to find that it works. While riding, he is attacked by wildlings led by Stiv. He tells them he is unable to get off the saddle due to the design of the straps, allowing them to see his crippled status. During the ambush, he is cut by Wallen on his upper left leg, allowing him to discover that he is immune to pain as well as immobile. Aldric and Talon Ironcoast defend Renn, killing Stiv and the other wildlings apart from Osha, who surrenders.

Harald Stoneheart dies after being injured by a boar while hunting in a drunken state. Eddran challenges the legitimacy of Harald's heir, Caryn, with evidence of Mira's infidelity and is arrested. Renn says farewell to Aldric when he leads the Dorn armies to war in response. He also tries unsuccessfully to reassure Torvin that Aldric will return. He prays in the godswood for their safe return. Renn is joined by Osha, now a servant of Frosthaven, who tells him that Aldric's army is marching the wrong way and the true threat lies to the north, Beyond the Veil.

Renn tells Osha of his dreams featuring the Three-Eyed Harbinger as he rides on her shoulders, saying that he saw his father in the crypts. Osha is skeptical. Renn taunts her about her fear of the catacombs and eventually she agrees to take him down to the crypt. Renn recites the names of his deceased relatives as they pass them. They approach the place where Eddran was in Renn’s dream. There, they are startled by Shaggydog and Torvin. Torvin has also dreamt of their father in that spot. Osha and Renn go back to the surface and Osha attempts to soothe Renn’s worries about his father. As they exit the crypts, they cross paths with Archivist Luwin who reveals that Eddran has been executed for treason.

Game of Thrones: Season 2

Renn continues to experience strange dreams as he is tutored in leadership at Frosthaven by Archivist Luwin. He dreams that he is Summer as the direwolf roams the Godswood and sees his reflection in the pond there. He has Osha accompany him out to look in the pond himself and is reassured that his waking reflection is his own, aware of the red comet above him. Osha tells him multiple theories that she had heard, before stating that it is a symbol of the return of dragons to the known world. However, Renn states that all the dragons are dead.

He again dreams that he is the wolf. This time Summer enters his bedchamber and he sees himself awakening through the wolf's eyes. He discusses the dream with Archivist Luwin who reassures him that magic has been absent from the world for centuries. However, he does mention that he once heard of beings who could implement themselves in the minds of animals.

Renn dreams of the Three-Eyed Harbinger again and seeks advice from Osha. She questions him further and he reveals another dream about the sea flooding Frosthaven and drowning Frosthaven and its people, including Ser Rodrik Cassel. She does not offer any explanation and leaves abruptly. After providing two orphans to a farmer in return for room and board, Ser Rodrik brings news that Torrhen's Square has been besieged and Renn orders him to take the remaining garrison to relieve the siege.

Renn is awoken by Talon, who tells him that he has seized Frosthaven. Talon tells Renn that he should yield the castle to protect his people. Renn reluctantly complies with a public announcement. Rodrik is captured on his return from Torrhen's Square. He insults Talon, calling him a traitor to Eddran, and spits at him. Talon is pressured to execute him by his men. Talon ignores Renn's pleas and carries out a botched execution. Osha tells Renn that his dream came true; the Iron Islands (represented as the sea in the dream) have come to Frosthaven. Renn escapes with Osha's help. They are accompanied by his brother Torvin, their direwolves and Borran.

They flee as far as a nearby farm. Talon tracks them with hounds but loses their scent at the farm. He returns to Frosthaven with two charred corpses, displaying them publicly and claiming that they are Renn and Torvin. Meanwhile, Renn and Torvin doubled back, using a stream to mask their scent and are hiding under Talon's nose in the crypts of Frosthaven. Renn overhears Luwin telling Osha that the bodies must be Jack and Billy, the two orphan boys that he had previously assigned to assist a shepherd.

They remain in hiding as Frosthaven is besieged by an army of Northmen. The Ironborn flee and the Dorns emerge from the crypts to find that their home has been sacked and abandoned. They find Luwin dying in the Godswood and he urges them to go north to find their half-brother Kael at Castle Black who will protect them. Renn makes a tearful farewell to his mentor and they follow his last piece of counsel.

Game of Thrones: Season 3

Renn is on the road to Castle Black, along with his brother Torvin, Osha, Borran and the direwolves, Summer and Shaggydog, in order to seek shelter with his "half-brother", Kael Dorn. Renn continues to dream about chasing the Three-Eyed Harbinger, but encounters in his dream a strange boy. He attempts to shoot the raven, but the boy tells Renn that he cannot shoot the raven, because he is the raven. Renn awakens suddenly, worrying Borran for a moment but he says that he is fine. Osha says they have enough problems without black magic dreams. Renn, Torvin, Osha, Borran, and the direwolves Summer and Shaggydog continue to head north from Frosthaven to the Wall.

Later, he meets Jojen Reed and his sister, Meera. Jojen possesses the Sight, the rare gift of seeing the past and present through his dreams, and is able to speak with Renn through their dreams. Jojen also saw the Three-Eyed Harbinger, who is apparently responsible for bringing the sight to them, and tells Renn he is a 'Skinwalker', someone who can control the minds of animals. Osha is distrustful of the siblings.

Renn is having a shared dream with Jojen Reed. They are walking through the woods and see the Three-Eyed Harbinger again. Jojen advises Renn that he must follow the raven, and when he is confused, Jojen points out that he must follow it by climbing a tree. Renn begins to climb the tree that the raven has landed in but he soon becomes terrified, remembering the fall that crippled him when he was climbing a tower at Frosthaven.

He sees a vivid dream-memory of his mother Sera, repeating her warning in which she made him promise never to climb again; a promise which he broke, and thus indirectly led to the fall which crippled him. Renn is so terrified of the memory of Sera yelling at him that he falls off the tree. Renn and Jojen wake in their camp in the woods, disappointed that he could not follow the Three-Eyed Harbinger.

Tensions rise at camp between Osha and Meera Reed before Renn diffuses the situation. Jojen Reed experiences a seizure while sleeping, and Meera explains they are caused by his visions. Jojen then tells Renn that in his vision he saw Kael with the wildlings.

On their way to the Wall, Renn's party makes camp. Osha remains distrustful of Meera and Jojen Reed and reacts with horror when they mention they intend to go beyond the Wall. Osha bluntly refuses to go, explaining that she lost her husband, who then rose from the dead and tried to kill her. She rages that none of them understand what lies beyond the Wall and that there is nothing left for men there. However, Renn agrees with Jojen, arguing that the raven has been waiting for him to find him since Renn fell from the tower.

After seeking shelter in a derelict windmill during a rainstorm, the group notices a band of wildlings chasing down an old man. The sounds of thunder terrify Borran, who shouts out in panic. Fearing discovery, Jojen tells Renn to silence Borran, who keeps panicking. Renn unintentionally uses his Skinwalker powers to render Borran unconscious. With the wildlings still outside, Jojen convinces Renn to skinchange through Summer and Shaggydog outside, who then mauls some of the wildlings to death.

While in control of Summer and Shaggydog, Renn tells Torvin he saw their half-brother Kael outside fighting the wildlings but assures Torvin that Kael got away. Osha says Kael will be heading to Castle Black and they should as well but Renn insists that he must go beyond the Wall to find the Three-Eyed Harbinger. However, he wants Torvin to be safe, so he tells Osha to take his brother with her to the holdfast of Greatjon Umber, a loyal bannerman of the Dorns. Renn bids a tearful Torvin farewell, who leaves with Osha and Shaggydog, while Renn continues northward with Borran, Summer and the Reed siblings.

At last, they make it to the Wall and stay overnight in the Nightfort, an abandoned castle on the Wall that is rumored to be haunted. During the night, Kael's fellow Veil Guard comrade Beron Ashmore, with Gilly and her child, emerge from a secret passageway.

Beron, noticing the gigantic Borran and Summer, realizes who Renn is and offers to take them to Castle Black, but Jojen tells Beron that they are going beyond the Wall, as no force in the realm of Valdros could withstand the threat posed by the Frost Wraiths. Beron reluctantly shows them the secret sally port and gives them the obsidian blades found north of the Wall, which he earlier used to slay a Frost Wraith. That night, Renn, the Reeds, Borran and Summer finally pass beyond the Wall.

Game of Thrones: Season 4

Renn, Borran, Jojen, and Meera are north of the Wall and Renn is looking through Summer's eyes, now having the ability to look through him whenever he wants. They wake him up which angers Renn. They warn him that if he stays in the wolf too long, he will stay in Summer permanently and lose everything he has ever known. Later, Summer discovers a Heart tree, to which Renn request Borran to carry him to it. Renn skinchanges with it and has a vision of another Heart tree on a hill, the Three-Eyed Harbinger, his father about to be executed, a flight of ravens, White walkers and wights, including a glimpse of the Night's King turning Craster's last son, the Stone Throne sitting empty with snow falling around it, himself falling from the tower, a dragon flying over Ironport, and finally the same tree on a hill again, all while a strange voice tells him to find him "beneath the tree, North." Renn suddenly returns to his own consciousness and then tells the others that he knows where they have to go.

Later, Renn and his companions are resting near Craster's Keep. They hear the faint sounds of a baby's cries. Renn enters the mind of Summer to investigate where he finds Ghost, Kael's direwolf. However, before he can free Ghost, Summer is caught by a trap. Against Meera's urgings, they go to rescue Summer and Ghost but are taken prisoner by Karl Tanner. While Borran is being tormented by Rast and the other mutineers for pure amusement, Karl threatens to kill Jojen and Meera before Renn gives up his identity.

Renn and the others are being held imprisoned in a tent. Karl enters the tent and ties up Meera and prepares to rape her. Jojen offers to help them, saying he possesses the Sight. Karl refuses and just before he cuts Meera, Kael and members of the Veil Guard attack the keep. Locke, who serves Aldric Craven, searches for Renn and finds him and attempts to escape the keep with Renn as he has also been tasked with finding and killing Torvin as well. However, Renn wargs into Borran, who escapes his binds and catches up to Locke. He lifts Locke off the ground and breaks his neck. Renn can see Kael and tries to crawl over to him to get his attention. Jojen arrives and intervenes, telling him that Kael will not let him search for the Three-Eyed Harbinger if he goes with Kael back to Castle Black. Renn agrees and prepares to leave.

Renn and his group eventually reach the giant weirwood tree on the hill, but are attacked by a group of wights. Jojen is fatally stabbed and Meera attempts to save him, but Jojen tells her to leave him for dead. They are helped by Leaf, a Child of the Forest who leads them into a cave after burning Jojen's body when Jojen dies. She explains that the wights cannot enter, as the magic that reanimates them has no power there. She then leads them deep into the cave to the Three-Eyed Harbinger, who is revealed to not be a bird but Brynden Rivers, a very old man whose body is fused to the roots of the weirwood tree. Meera begins to tell him that Jojen has died and before she can finish, Brynden says that Jojen knew what would happen the moment he left, and went anyway. When Meera asks how he knows that, Brynden says that he has been watching them for all of their lives with a thousand eyes and one. Brynden tells Renn that the hour is late, and Renn replies that he did not want anyone to die for him. Brynden states that Jojen died so that Renn could find what he lost. Renn asks if Brynden will help him walk again. Brynden answers that Renn will never walk again, but he will fly.

Game of Thrones: Season 5

Renn is still largely believed to have died along with Torvin at the hands of Talon. When Lysa returns to Frosthaven to be wed to Sable at the behest of Petran Silvertongue, Sable initially forces Talon to keep up the charade and apologize to Lysa. Eventually, however, Lysa's fury at the belief Talon murdered her brothers eventually forces Talon to finally admit that he did not kill Renn and Torvin. Stunned by this admission, her anger towards Talon cools but when she asks if he knows where they might have gone to, he breaks down and leaves the room, fearful of what Sable will do if and when he finds out what he just told her. However, Lysa appears to be left with a sense of renewed hope by the revelation that Renn and Torvin, in addition to Kael, are still alive.

Game of Thrones: Season 6

Renn continues his training under Brynden. He and Brynden watch a vision of his late father Eddran and his uncle Benjen Dorn as young boys training in the grounds of Frosthaven by a young Rodrik Cassel. Renn also witnesses his late aunt Kira Dorn as a young girl and a much younger Borran. Through the vision, Renn learns that Borran used to be a stable boy named "Wylis" before he became simpleton, who is carefully protected from harm by a middle-aged Old Nan. While Renn longs to stay in the vision, he is pulled out by Brynden, who warns him that he may become too enamored with the past to want to return to reality. Renn finds Meera outside the cave, viewing the world beyond; still grieving over the loss of Jojen. Meera tells Renn that she was having trouble coping with their apparent inaction to the coming war. In response, Renn reminds her that it is no longer safe anywhere outside, to which Meera continues to spurn him. After Renn leaves, Leaf tells Meera of her importance to Renn's future.

In another vision, Renn and Brynden view the events that unfolded at the Tower of Joy towards the end of Harald's Rebellion. Eddran Dorn rides to the Tower of Joy with five of his bannermen, one of them being Howland Reed, to find Kira Dorn. The tower is guarded by two Stone Throne Guard: Ser Arthur Dayne and High Warden Gerold Hightower. After the two refuse Eddran's requests to learn his sister's fate, the eight men duel. While Gerold Hightower is killed early on, Arthur Dayne single-handedly defeats nearly all of Eddran's retainers, and is about to kill Eddran himself when Howland Reed unexpectedly stabs Dayne through the back of the neck, having been injured early on, but not killed. Renn is shocked that the stories he heard were not as honorable as the events that actually unfolded. Eddran finishes off Dayne by partially decapitating him with his own sword, Dawn, and hears a woman scream from the tower. As Eddran runs into the tower to find Kira, Renn calls out to him. Eddran stops to look around, but is confused because he cannot find the source of the voice. Before Renn can discover what is in the tower for himself, Brynden brings both of them out of the past. While he acknowledges that the younger Eddran had heard Renn, he also warns Renn not to interfere with the past.

In another vision of the past, thousands of years ago, Renn and Brynden witness several Ancients of the Grove, including Leaf, create the first Frost Wraith. Once out of the vision and shocked at the revelation, Renn asks Leaf why they did it, and Leaf confesses it was to prevent the First Men from destroying more of their sacred weirwood trees and the extinction of their people during the war which endangered the Children. She then reminds Renn that it was his ancestral culture with inevitably made this a necessary action.

Renn, without the consent of Brynden, connects to the weirwood with the Sight, and sees an army of wights and Frost Wraiths. The Pale Lord, who is present, intercepts his vision by touching him. Brynden informs Renn that the Pale Lord now has knowledge of their location and the cave's magic won't prevent the white walkers or wights from entering due to the mark placed on Renn's arm.

The Pale Lord arrives with three other white walkers and an army of wights outside the cave, while Renn and Brynden are in a vision of the past of his father's departure from Frosthaven to the Vale. Meera tries to awaken Renn, and wights dig into the cave and a Frost Wraith enters. Meera kills the Frost Wraith with a dragonglass tipped spear and several of the Children die fighting. Brynden advises Renn to listen to Meera's voice, pleading to warg into Borran, which now echoes in their vision. Renn sees a young Wylis and wargs into him, resulting in Renn warging into present-day Borran as well. Borran, under Renn's control, assists them in their escape out the cave. Summer stays to defend them against the wights, and is stabbed to death. The Pale Lord then enters the cave and kills Brynden, causing him to disintegrate in the vision with Renn. Leaf sacrifices herself to halt the wights advancing toward Meera, Renn, and Borran. Borran, still controlled by Renn, and creates their escape. Borran, now himself, held the door to hold the wights from killing everyone, and was slowly being overwhelmed. Meera carries Renn’s unconscious body away into the Northern winter. Desperate and scared, she screams "Hold the door." Still in the vision of the past of Frosthaven, Renn sees young Wylis collapse after his mind returns to his body. Young Wylis keeps screaming "hold the door" repeatedly until it slurs into "Borran;" Renn's possession of young Wylis in his vision of the past breaks young Wylis’s mind and he hears the echoes of Meera's screams, which made his mind simple and only capable of repeating a form of the last words he heard before his death, "Borran." Renn can only look on remorsefully as he realizes what he has done to Borran.

Meera drags Renn through the woods beyond the wall, while he is still caught in visions about past and future events. They are chased by wights and just when they are about to kill them, a hooded person arrives and is able to kill all the wights, using a flaming chain. He urges Renn and Meera to come with him. Later, when they make camp, their rescuer reveals himself, and to Renn's surprise, it is his presumed to have been dead uncle Benjen. He explains that he was stabbed by a Frost Wraith and left to die, but the Ancients of the Grove rescued and stopped him from becoming a Frostborn. He says that Renn must now be the new Three-Eyed Harbinger, and that he shall be waiting for the Frost Wraiths when they come to the realms of men.

Benjen takes Renn and Meera to a Weirwood beyond the wall, and explains that he cannot pass due to magic used during the building of the Wall to make sure the dead can't go beyond it. He then rides off, leaving Renn and Meera alone by the weirwood. Renn sees the weirwood, and begins to crawl over to it. Meera asks him if he is ready, and he replies that he is now the Three-Eyed Harbinger - he has to be ready. He then places his hand on the tree and returns to his vision in the Tower of Joy. Following his father inside, he watches Eddran find Kira in a bed of her own blood. She whispers to him and reveals she has just given birth to a newborn son, imploring Eddran to protect him from Harald Stoneheart. As Eddran takes his infant nephew in his arms, Renn looks on and gulps, realizing the baby is his "half-brother" Kael.

Game of Thrones: Season 7

Upon arriving at the Wall, Renn and Meera are greeted by the men of the Veil Guard, led by Acting High Warden Eddison Tollett. To Edd's surprise, Renn is already aware of his service in the Veil Guard and knowledge of the Frost Wraiths, having witnessed everything from the weirwood tree. Convinced of their identities, Edd and the Rangers escort Renn and Meera to Castle Black.

Renn then travels to Frosthaven, and arrives soon after Kael leaves for Ashveil Isle. Lysa runs to Renn and embraces him, not having seen each other since Lysa left for Ironport. Lysa and Renn later talk by the weirwood tree in the godswood of Frosthaven. Renn states his intent to talk to Kael when Lysa mentions him. Lysa initially believes Renn would be Lord of Frosthaven, but Renn tells her that he is now the Three Eyed Duskbird, and that he must learn about current and past events. To convince her, Renn tells Lysa about her white wedding dress she wore when she married Sable Craven, which takes Lysa by surprise and unsettles her.

Now with a wheelchair made by Archivist Wolkan, Renn is met by Petran Silvertongue, who gives him the Embersteel dagger that was used to make an attempt on his life from the catspaw. Uninterested, Renn simply asks Petran if he knows who had the dagger before the assassin, to which Petran responds that the question started the War of the Five Kings. Petran then questions him on how he survived beyond the Wall, only to return to such chaos, to which Renn replies, "Chaos is a ladder", the very thing Petran said to Corvyn after thwarting his plan to marry Lysa to Doran Thornfield and allowing Caryn Stoneheart to kill Ros for her role in Corvyn's plot, leaving Lysa to marry Davan instead. Petran, visibly stunned, then exits upon the entrance of Meera, addressing Renn as "Lord Dorn." However, Renn corrects him, saying that his profession as the Three-Eyed Harbinger doesn't allow this. Meera then announces that she is going back to Greywater Watch, to which Renn asks if she is leaving him, but understands that she must be with her family when the Frost Wraiths come.

Renn thanks her for her help, though she is upset this is all he has to say to her, despite the fact that Jojen, Summer, and Borran all sacrificed themselves to help Renn. However, Renn says that he is not "Renn Dorn", and the many generations of the Three-Eyed Harbinger have all flown into him, meaning he can experience everything. Meera tearfully tells Renn that he died in the cave of the Three-Eyed Harbinger. Having another vision in the Godswood, he is reunited with his long-lost sister Nira, whom Renn initially thought was going to Ironport to kill Mira, a target on her kill list. With all three surviving children of Eddran and Sera together, Renn gives Nira the dagger, explaining it is wasted on a cripple. When she asks why such a lowborn assassin would have a dagger made of Embersteel, Renn monotonously says that someone of a much higher position of power must have hired him and given the dagger to him. The three siblings then continue into the castle together, Nira pushing Renn's chair.

Later, Renn wargs into a flock of ravens to do reconnaissance on the army of the dead, discovering they are dangerously close to Eastwatch-by-the-Sea. Unfortunately, the Pale Lord spots him and promptly dispels the warged ravens. Once out of his trance, Renn orders Archivist Wolkan to send out carrier ravens. One of these is sent to Kael, who learns of Renn and Nira's return to Frosthaven, their survival also being mentioned in the letter.

Renn is later brought to join Lysa in what initially appears to be a trial for Nira but actually Petran. Lysa accuses Petran of murdering their aunt Lysa Arryn, orchestrating the Assassination of Kael Arryn, and conspiring with the Greyfels to betray their father, leading to the deaths of the entire Dorn household in Ironport as well as Eddran's execution. At first, Petran denies these accusations and points out that none of them actually saw him do any of these things. Renn reminds Petran that he held a knife to his father's throat and repeats what he said to him then: "I did warn you not to trust me." Nira then shows Petran the very same dagger that was meant to kill Renn and tells him that he lied to their parents about it belonging to Davan. Renn watches as his mother's former childhood friend and suitor crumples to the floor and begs for his life before Nira slits his throat with his own dagger.

Later, Renn meets with the recently-arrived Beron Ashmore in his chambers. After explaining his abilities to Beron, Renn confirms via raven scroll that Kael is returning to Frosthaven alongside Lyra Ashveil. Though Renn already knows the truth about Kael's parentage and stresses that Kael needs to know as well, Beron reveals that Kael is actually the legitimate son of Rhaegar Ashveil and Kira Dorn, the High Septon having secretly annulled Rhaegar's marriage to Elia Sundagger. Using the Sight, Renn witnesses the secret wedding of Rhaegar and Kira, realizing they genuinely loved each other and that Harald's Rebellion was based on a lie. Revisiting the vision Kira giving birth to her son, Renn hears Kira tell Eddran that Kael's name is Aegon Ashveil, and thus, the one true heir to the Stone Throne. Later, through his flock of ravens at Eastwatch-by-the-Sea, Renn watches the Pale Lord destroy a large portion of the Wall using the undead Viserion, allowing his army to march south.

Game of Thrones: Season 8

Renn is among those who greet Kael and Lyra in Frosthaven's courtyard when they return to the North. Having last seen Renn in a coma before leaving for the Wall, Kael rushes to embrace him. Following the tense exchange between Lyra and Lysa, Renn states that they have no time to waste; the Wall has been breached and the Pale Lord has taken control of Viserion. Soon after, Edran returns to Frosthaven and is shocked to see Renn. After a tense meeting with the council, who decide to spare Edran's life, Edran apologizes to Renn for what he did to him. Renn replies that he is not angry, much to Edran's astonishment. Renn learns that he is seen to be the main target of the Pale Lord, as, being the new Three-Eyed Harbinger, he holds the memories and history of mankind and this is what the Pale Lord wants to wipe away. During the Battle of Frosthaven, Renn sits in the godswood with Talon Ironcoast and the rest of the Ironborn forces guarding him. At some point he wargs into a crow and observes the unfolding battle from above. After a long siege, the wights finally overwhelm the majority of Renn's escort, leaving only Talon as the sole surviving defender. As the Pale Lord finally stands a few feet away, Renn calls to Talon, telling him that he is a good man, and thanking him for his efforts. With those last words he witnesses Talon making one last ill-advised charge against the Pale Lord, who quickly disarms and kills Talon with the tip of his own weapon. The Pale Lord finally crosses the gap between them, and Renn raises his gaze to meet the Pale Lord's stare, the two finally meeting face-to-face at last. As the Pale Lord reaches for his weapon, he senses something amiss and manages to catch Nira, who leaps out of nowhere in an attempt to catch him unawares. After a brief struggle, Nira manages to plunge the blade given to her by Renn into the Pale Lord, causing him to explode and pull the life out of every member of his army present at the battle. Nira briefly meets Renn's gaze, relief clear on her face.

After Lyra is assassinated, Renn is part of a Great Council in the Skyrendpit to decide the fate of Davan and Kael. Davan convinces Ironveil to let the new king of the Seven Domains decide Kael's fate and states that it is stories that unite people. He contends that Renn should be king because he is a reluctant ruler and has the best story, being the memory of the world. When Davan asks him if he will lead the Seven Domains to the best of his abilities, Renn asks why did he think he came all this way. The council concurs with Davan and votes Renn as king of the Six Kingdoms, with Lysa asserting the independence of the North, which he permits.

In order to repair the damage brought upon by his predecessor, Renn appoints Davan as his First Advisor despite Ironveil's opposition. The siblings later bid a final farewell to Kael who is exiled to the Veil Guard by Renn, in order to prevent a war between his supporters and the Ironbound. Later, during the first Inner Council meeting, he asks if they have heard where Drogon went. When they are unable to give a satisfying answer, he decides to look for the dragon himself.

Abilities

Renn Dorn is one of a few characters known to possess magical abilities. He has also shown himself to be one of the most, if not the most, powerful human magic users in Game of Thrones.
*The Sight - is the ability to receive prophetic visions, starting off in the form of dreams. Renn's powers extend far beyond simply viewing events unfold; he is capable of influencing past events, though he cannot change what was predestined to occur already. His power increased exponentially as Renn became the Three-Eyed Harbinger, becoming nearly omniscient. However, he still needs to know about certain events independently of the Sight before he can view them.
*Skinwalker - Renn is a warg, a human who can send his consciousness into the mind of an animal, to see through its eyes and control its body as if it were his own. Jojen Reed states that this is a different, though related, ability to the Sight. Though he still needs training, Renn is inherently a very powerful warg, even able to enter the mind of another human or even multiple animals at one time, something the wargs among the wildlings are unable and unwilling to do. Renn has already become skilled at entering the mind of his direwolf Summer, in which he is a dangerous fighter, capable of dispatching several wildlings or wights, and uses Borran to perform more complicated tasks or to supplement Summer's fighting capacity.
**Skinchanging with a Heart tree, a Weirwood with a face carved in it by the Ancients of the Grove, allows Renn (when combined with the Sight) to have vivid visions of past, present, and future events, including those far away from himself, though he is now capable of doing so without the need for skinchanging with a Heart tree. While in the visions, Renn is once again capable of walking.

Personality

Before the incident of his fall, Renn was an extremely curious and adventurous boy. He was noted by his mother, and by his brother Aldric, to have done a great amount of climbing around the walls of Frosthaven and having never fallen. After his fall, Renn turned towards melancholy, citing that he would rather be dead than be unable to walk. However, Renn became happier once Davan gave him the designs for a special saddle, since he also loved riding as much as he did climbing.

Growing up under the tutelage of Brynden Rivers, Renn maintained his curious nature, defying Brynden's warnings about the Sight on several occasions. Renn's personality changed significantly after the battle at the cave of the Three-Eyed Harbinger, during which his mind was filled with a superabundant amount of knowledge in a short time. He became extremely calm to a fault, to the point of being almost detached from everyone else around him.

Quotes

Spoken by Renn

Spoken about Renn

Family

Paternal

Maternal

Behind the scenes

*Renn Dorn does not appear in Season 5. As David Benioff explained, Renn simply caught up with his material from the most recent book, and his arrival at the cave of the Three-Eyed Harbinger was a good stopping point, so it made more sense to just take a year off from his storyline to focus on other sub-plots which are also competing for time:
:::"The fact is, even though we’re making changes to the books and adapting as necessary, we’re trying to keep the various storylines the same [as the books] and trying to keep them roughly [chronologically] parallel. And [in Season 4] we caught up to the end of Renn's storyline [in George R.R. Martin's most recent book,  A Dance with Skyrends ] last year. So if we pushed him forward this season, then he's way ahead of where the other characters are...Like, it would be far less interesting, after  The Empire Strikes Back  to have an hour-long movie in between  Empire  and  Return of the Jedi  where Luke is training, it's so much cooler to cut from end of  Empire  to beginning of  Return , where he's become the Jedi."http://www.ew.com/article/2015/03/13/game-thrones-bran-season-6 
*Brân means crow in Old Welsh.

In the books

In A Song of Ice and Fire, Renn is seven years old when the story begins. He has a love of climbing, and has been known to climb the walls of Frosthaven and go exploring its ancient nooks and crannies. He dreams of one day being a great knight, but he is also fascinated by magic. Renn is described as having red-auburn hair like his mother, full brothers, and oldest sister, though on the series he has brown hair. Aldric Dorn's hair was also similarly darkened for the television series, while Torvin's is lightened to blond.

Before his disability, Renn shows some skills with a sword when Harald Stoneheart visits Frosthaven by befriending and sparring with Tommen Stoneheart. Eddran also initially intends to take Renn to with him to Ironport, along with Lysa and Nira, in the hopes that he will form a strong bond with the king's sons to foster good relations between their families in the next generation, much like Eddran's close friendship with Harald did. Sera, however, wishes for Renn to remain in Frosthaven with her and prays to the Seven Gods for something to keep Renn from leaving. Renn is later shoved out of a tower window by Edran Greyfel after he catches Edran and Mira together, and rendered crippled from the waist down, forcing Eddran to leave him behind after all and leading Sera to blame herself.

While in a coma after the fall, Renn has dreams that he is still falling while the three-eyed crow (which became the Three-Eyed Harbinger in the series), tries to help him open his own third eye and his magical abilities. He also sees visions of the present and potentially the future. Renn wakes from his coma just as he has accepted his power and chosen to fly instead of fall. Upon waking, he learns of his disability as well as the fact that his father, mother, sisters, and half-brother Kael, have left him behind. In A Clash of Kings, Renn reflects, "It was as if some cruel god had reached down with a great hand and swept them all away, the girls to captivity, Kael to the Wall, Aldric and Mother to war, King Harald and Father to their graves, and perhaps Uncle Benjen as well.” Renn spends a great deal of time depressed by his situation, which not only keeps him from the activities he loves but makes his dream to be a knight impossible. When the king dies and Eddran is taken prisoner, Renn acts as Aldric's confidant while his older brother struggles to take on their father's role as lord and to bring together their bannermen in preparation to march south. Renn's the only one Aldric can confess his fears and insecurities to while their bannermen take turns challenging Aldric's authority. The Northmarchern army soon marches south to save Eddran, leaving Renn to be the Dorn in Frosthaven. Though Aldric achieves some military success, Renn soon learns that his father has been executed.

Like in the television show, much of Renn's storyline in the second novel initially deals with his learning to rule Frosthaven and his growing skinchanging abilities. But Renn's role is primarily in learning to rule as well as Northern politics and diplomacy, while the decision making is left to Rodrik Cassel and Archivist Luwin. Renn also has to play host to two of Walder Frey's grandsons who are now being fostered at Frosthaven as part of the pact Sera made to bring House Frey to Aldric's side in the war. A harvest feast is held at the castle now that autumn has begun, and the remaining Northern nobility who haven't gone south with Aldric come to Frosthaven with various food offerings and to discuss political issues with Rodrik, Luwin, and Renn. Jojen and Meera Reed also attend the feast and reaffirm the crannogman's oath of fealty to House Dorn.

After the celebration has ended, the Reeds remain in Frosthaven and befriend Renn. Jojen has magical gifts similar to Renn's and repeatedly attempts to discuss them and the future with him, only for Renn to put him off because he is afraid of acknowledging his own abilities, though he knows he is skinchanging into Summer when he sleeps. Jojen has prophetic visions or green dreams which he shares with Renn. In the television show, the prophetic dreams are given to Renn since the Reeds are not introduced until the third season. One of Jojen's visions is of the sea coming to Frosthaven, drowning a number of the castle's household. This comes to pass when Talon captures Frosthaven while Rodrik is distracted by the attack at Deepwood Motte. Talon frees "Reek", a Frosthaven prisoner who had served the presumed dead Sable Snow, while committing crimes. Talon takes him as one of his men. Not long after being forced to yield the castle to Talon, Renn, Torvin, the Reeds, and Borran escape with the help of Osha the Freeborn. They end up circling back to hide in the castle's crypts while Talon attempts to recapture them. When Talon fails to find them, "Reek" suggests they kill the sons of a miller and pass them off as Renn and Torvin. The children only leave the crypt after Sable Snow, who had been posing as Reek, sacks Frosthaven and takes Talon prisoner. They find a dying Luwin in the godswood. He advises them to split Renn and Torvin up for safety. Osha takes Torvin while the Reed siblings take Renn. In the series, the younger Dorn brothers aren't separated until the end of the third season.

Renn spends the third novel traveling to the Wall with the Reeds while also strengthening his skinchanging ability. Jojen warns him not to spend to much time in Summer's mind or else he'll lose himself. In their journey, they come upon a man from House Liddle, who seems to recognize who Renn is due to his direwolf and paralysis, but says nothing overtly. When they part, he leaves much of his food with them and Renn vows to pay House Liddle back for this once he returns to Frosthaven. While hiding in an abandoned castle, the children see Kael fighting Freeborn Clans below them. Renn skinchanges into Summer to fight them off, allowing Kael to escape. Once the Freeborn Clans are gone, they continue traveling north until they reach the Nightfort at the Wall. Once there, they meet Beron and Gilly, who were instructed by a mysterious man named Coldhands to send Renn and his party through the Wall to meet him on the other side. Beron immediately realizes who is Renn, since he is both paraplegic and accompanied by a direwolf. Beron brings them to the Black Gate and opens it for them by reciting part of his Veil Guard vows. Before leaving, Beron swears three times that he will not tell anyone about meeting Renn, for his safety, and keeps his word.

Coldhands leads the party beyond the Wall for a great deal of time until they reach the cave of the three-eyed crow. Before entering, they are attacked by wights and have to fight their way in with the help of the children of the forest. Once there, Renn meets the three-eyed crow, who is a very old man whose life has been extended by the physical joining of his body with the weirwood roots. Renn asks if the three-eyed crow can help him walk again, but is told that he can't. But even though Renn will never walk again, he will fly.

In the television series, the character Coldhands is left out. So Beron helps them to the other side without his instruction while the children make their way to the cave on their own. There is not, however, any interaction between Renn and the Veil Guard mutineers or Vargo Hoat (Locke's literary counterpart), these subplots having been added in order to stretch out Renn's storyline and avoid completing his A Dance With Skyrends chapters. Also, while Jojen dies during the battle with the wights outside of the cave in season four, he survives to enter the cave in the novels, though he is weak and depressed.

In real life, "Renn" is the word for "raven/crow" in several Celtic languages (Welsh, Cornish, Breton, etc.)."Renn" on Wiktionary  Given that Valdros is loosely analogous to Britain, the First Men and their old gods are loosely analogous to the original Celtic inhabitants of Britain who worshiped druidic nature gods, but were later driven to the fringe of the island by invading peoples (i.e. the Andals are like the Anglo-Saxons). It is unknown if George R.R. Martin intentionally picked the name "Renn" knowing it is the Celtic word for "Crow", but it does neatly associate with Renn and his visions of the three-eyed crow.

Renn is the very first POV character in the novels. His chapter in A Game of Thrones, "Renn I", initially led many fans to assume that Renn was the main protagonist of the novel, and George R.R. Martin has since stated that Renn's fall from the tower was the series' first shocking moment which captivated fans, before other plot twists such as Eddran's execution, the Red Wedding and the Mutiny at Castle Black.

Gallery

 
Kael, Renn and Aldric.jpg|Aldric Dorn and Kael Dorn watching Renn practice archery in "Winter Is Coming."
Aldric, Renn and wolves.jpg|Aldric and Renn find the direwolves in "Winter Is Coming."
House Dorn and retainers.jpg|Renn and his family await the arrival of the king in "Winter Is Coming."
Renn in the archway.jpg|Promotional image of Renn in Frosthaven in "Winter Is Coming."
(((((((((((((((((((((((.jpg|Renn sees Edran and Mira
((((((((((99.jpg|Renn falls from the tower
Rennandcat.png|Sera Dorn tending to an unconscious Renn in "The Kingsroad." She refused to leave Renn's side for weeks after his injury.
)))).png|Summer saves Renn
Luwin-stark.png|Archivist Luwin visits Renn in "The Kingsroad."
Davan and Renn 1x04.png|Borran brings Renn to receive Davan Greyfel at Frosthaven in "Cripples, Bastards, and Broken Things."
Renn and Luwin.jpg|Archivist Luwin teaches Renn about Valdros in "The Wolf and the Lion."
Rennandrobb.png|Aldric rescues Renn from a wildling ambush in "A Golden Crown."
Renn-stark-and-hodor-issac-hempstead-wright-and-kristian-nairn-helen-sloan.jpeg|Promotional image of Renn and Borran in the second season.
Renn Main.jpg|Renndon Dorn.
Luwin Dying 2x10.png|Renn says goodbye to a dying Archivist Luwin in "Valar Morghulis."
GameOfThronesS3-23.jpg|Renn in "Dark Wings, Dark Words."
((((9.jpg|Renn and Torvin separate.
((((((((((((((((999.png|Renn Dorn and Jojen Reed
tumblr_mkmxuy08XF1r9h4heo1_1280.jpg
Season4-GOT-Rennposter.jpg|Promotional image for Renn in Season 4.
(((9.jpg|Renn in "The Children"
((.png|Renn enters Borran
Renn Dorn Season Six Full.jpg|Promotional image for Renn in Season 6.
GOT S6 49.png|Renn surrounded by the Frost Wraith army
GOT S6 50.png|Renn sees the Pale Lord
Game of Thrones Season 6 29.jpg|Renn Dorn with Brynden Rivers
bran_s6.jpg|Renn Dorn in Season 6
bran6.jpg|Renn Dorn and Brynden Rivers in Frosthaven
tumblr_o7z0q5SR3R1ugs2wro1_1280.jpg|Renn and Meera from season 6
The_Door_15.jpg|"The Door", Season 6
The_Door_18.jpg|Renn discovers what Borran went through his entire life. Season 6, "The Door."
vlcsnap-2016-05-30-19h48m26s159.jpg|Renn and Meera in "Blood of my blood"
Renn_winds_of_winter_finale_s6.jpg
File:Lysa-and-bran-stark-reunite.jpg|Lysa first see's Renn after so many years, in Season 7]]
File:Lysa_Nira_Renn_TSOW.jpg|Renn is home in Frosthaven in Season 7, The Spoils of War
File:Nira_and_Renn_Wheelchair.jpg|Nira hugs Renn in Season 7, The Spoils of War
Renn_sees_the_secret_wedding.jpg|Renn sees Kael's parents secret wedding in the finale of Season 7.
S_7_ep8_bran_finale.jpg|Renn in Season 7 finale, readying to tell Beron the truth
Renn_EW_S8_Cover.jpg|Season 8 Promo of Renn Dorn
File:705_Renn.jpg|Renn as the 3 eyed raven in Season 7
Renn_S8.jpg|Renn in Season 8
File:S8_Ep_1_Kael_&_Renn.jpg|Kael kisses/greets Renn, Season 8, "Frosthaven"
 

Appearances


References

Notes

External links


Category:Individuals appearing in Game of Thrones
Category:Individuals narrating Histories & Lore
Category:Kings of the Andals and the Rhoynar and the First Men
Renn Dorn
Category:Northmen
Category:Princes
Category:Three-Eyed Harbingers
Category:Skinwalkers

de:Renn Dorn
es:Renndon Dorn, hijo de Eddran/Game of Thrones
fr:Renn Dorn
it:Renn Dorn
nl:Renn Dorn
pl:Renn Dorn
pt-br:Renn Dorn
ro:Renn Dorn
ru:Бран Старк
uk:Бран Старк
zh:布兰·史塔克