{{Character


Ser Briana Stoneguard is a knight of House Tarth and the only daughter of Lord Selwyn Tarth.

Prior to the Battle of Frosthaven, Briana was knighted by Ser Edran Greyfel, making her the first woman of the Seven Domains to become a knight.

Following the ascension of Renn I the Broken as King of the Andals and the First Men, following the death of Lyra Ashveil, Briana is appointed the new Lady Commander of the Stone Throne Guard.

Biography

Background

Briana is the sole surviving child and heir of Lord Selwyn Tarth of Evenfall Hall, on the island of Tarth, located in the Narrow Sea off the coast of the Stormlands. Though few men in Valdros would find her attractive, she is unusually tall and muscular for a woman by Valdrosi standards and developed a taste for martial activity as a child. Briana has grown up to become skilled at arms and dreams of becoming a knight, an unusual aspiration for a Valdrosi woman.HBO viewer's guide, season 2 guide to houses, House Stoneheart of Stormkeep  - Briana entry 

Briana's mother died when she was so young that she does not remember her. She had some siblings but they all died in childhood. As the sole heir of House Tarth, she posed a fairly promising marriage prospect for men from other noble houses, but due to her physicality and personality she has never seriously pursued a marriage alliance with another house, and was a virgin until her liaison with Edran Greyfel. As a child, she was frequently mocked by her peers when dressed in female clothes. She recalls a certain ball where the other ladies made a laughingstock of her until she was rescued by a young Garren Stoneheart.

She is also called the "Maid of Tarth," or, disparagingly, "Briana the Beauty," due to her appearance.

Game of Thrones: Season 2

Briana joins the forces of King Garren Stoneheart in the War of the Five Kings. She proves herself by winning a tournament amongst his men, including a victory over Garren's favorite – and High Warden of the Stone Throne Guard – Ser Doran Thornfield. She asks to be named to his Stone Throne Guard as a reward. Garren grants her request, despite her gender and consequent lack of knighthood. Sera arrives in the camp to negotiate an alliance between Garren and her son, King Aldric Dorn. Briana takes offense when Lady Sera does not refer to Garren as "Your Grace," and later, escorts her and Garren through the camp as they talk. She tells Sera to call her just "Briana," as despite her birth, she does not consider herself a "Lady."

Silvertongue also visits Garren's camp, as an envoy from King Caryn Stoneheart. Garren tells Petran that he does not trust him and cites Briana as having true loyalty. This mistrust seems well founded, as Petran offers to open the gates of Ironport to Garren. While in camp, he also proposes that Sera exchange Aldric's captive Edran for her daughters. Briana also guards Garren during an unsuccessful meeting with his brother, King Orin Stoneheart. Orin threatens Garren for refusing to swear fealty to him.

Later that evening, Garren talks with Sera in his tent, agreeing to recognize Aldric as King in the North, as long as Aldric gives him fealty as an overlord and recognizes his claim to the Stone Throne. Briana is removing his armor when the flap of the tent flutters as if the wind has raised it, and Seraphel's shadow-creature materializes to stab Garren in the back, running him through. Briana is devastated at witnessing the death, but recognizes that the Shadow had the likeness of Orin. She cries out and catches him as he falls, getting his blood all over herself. When two other members of Garren's Stone Throne Guard who were guarding the tent rush in, they blame Briana for the death and attack her. She is forced to kill Robar Royce and Emmon Cuy, and Sera convinces her to flee the camp, as she cannot avenge Garren if she is dead herself.

Briana swears an oath of fealty to Sera, becoming her sworn sword. They travel back to Aldric's camp in the Westerlands. Sera is devastated by news that her home Frosthaven has been captured by the turncloak Talon and her sons made his captives. Aldric, still in the midst of fighting for the Riverlands, plans to send word to a vassal in the North, the bastard of one of his commanders Aldric Craven, to free them and leaves to negotiate the surrender of the Crag.

Edran escapes captivity, killing Torrhen Karstark in the attempt. He is soon recaptured, but Torrhen's father Lord Rickard Karstark demands his head in vengeance. Briana guards Sera as she convinces Rickard to await Aldric's return. As the hours until daylight stretch before them, the Karstarks are getting more violent and agitated, calling for Edran's death. As it would be death to try to defend him, Briana tells Sera that at this rate Edran will not live long enough for Aldric to return.

Sera decides to free Edran in an attempt to exchange him for her two daughters, who she believes are both being held hostage in Ironport by the Greyfels. She orders Briana to smuggle Edran from the camp and deliver him to Ironport in order to secure the safety of her daughters. Briana travels by horse until finding a rowboat to evade pursuit. She suffers the constant antagonism of her captive as he taunts her about her appearance and her likely dismal history with the opposite sex.

When they come upon a tree with the hanging corpses of three tavern girls who have been killed by Dorn forces for having relations with Greyfel men, Edran confronts her with the atrocity committed by "her side." Briana reminds him that she is sworn to Lady Sera, not the Dorns. Despite their need to continue, Briana determines to give the women a decent burial and is going to cut them down, when three of the Northern soldiers who killed the women return. Edran tries to get her to remove his chains so he can defend them, but Briana ignores him. She tells the men that she is escorting a prisoner back to Riverrun for justice. Edran improvises that he is in chains for stealing a pig. Realizing that Briana is a woman, the Dorn soldiers laugh uncontrollably. Briana suffers it in silence, and at this even Edran seems sympathetic towards her over this rude treatment. She deflects the men's amusement by asking if the hanging women were given a quick death, and is told two of them were. When one of the men recognizes Edran from the Battle of Whispering Wood, Briana is forced to fight them. She kills two quickly, but deliberately gives the third a slower death. Her skill impresses Ser Edran, who points out that the men she killed were Dorn soldiers. Briana reaffirms that she is loyal not to the Dorns but to Sera herself, then returns to the task of cutting down and burying the tavern girls.

Game of Thrones: Season 3

Edran continues to be escorted by Briana to Ironport. On their way there, they are spotted by a traveler. Edran urges Briana to kill the traveler, since he believes the man recognized him and will give away their whereabouts, but she refuses. Later, the pair have to cross a river, which means they can either attempt a dangerous fording or take the bridge, which will probably be watched.

Briana takes the safer route of the bridge. Edran distracts Briana and grabs her spare sword. He cut his bonds and they engage in an extended sword fight on the bridge Edran, one of the most skilled swordsmen in all of Valdros, nearly overcomes Briana several times. However, Edran's mobility is reduced because his hands are still manacled, and he is malnourished after having spent the past full year chained up in a cell.

Edran begins to tire, and Briana wears him down further by making simple body-blows with kicks and punches. After a protracted fight, Edran finally slumps to the ground in exhaustion, after being thrown off balance. Just then, riders from House Craven (guided by the traveler who spied them earlier) arrive led by a man named Locke, who gives the traveler silver for his services. Edran tries to negotiate, but Locke replies that he will be executed by Aldric if he lets the Kingslayer go free, so both he and Briana are taken prisoner.

As they ride along, the Craven men sing a rousing chorus of "The Bear and the Maiden Fair." Tied up back to back on one of the horses, Edran warns Briana that when they make camp for the night, they will rape her, more than once, and that his honest advice is to give no resistance, and just think of Garren. They were only sent to capture Edran, therefore Briana means nothing to them, so at the slightest provocation they will kill her without hesitation. Briana says she will fight even if they kill her, and Edran agrees that if he were a woman, he would fight to the death before being raped, too.

Later that night, Locke's men make camp, and do indeed drag Briana kicking and screaming into the bushes to gang-rape her. Edran is disgusted by this pointless brutality, so he tells Locke that Briana is actually a noblewoman and the sole heir of Lord Selwyn Tarth, who rules the "Sapphire Isle" which, Edran says, mines all the sapphires in Valdros, and her father will pay them her weight in sapphires as a ransom, provided she is unharmed. Locke agrees and calls his men back before they are able to rape Briana, and they tie her up to a tree again.

Emboldened by his success, Edran attempts to barter for his release by reminding Locke of the wealth and power of his own father. This has an adverse effect, however, and Locke, angered by Edran's arrogance and complacency, mutilates him by cutting off his sword hand. Later, while sitting with Briana near the fire, Edran has lost the will to live and will not eat because of his lost hand. At first, Briana chastises him that he cannot take it when life gets tough, comparing him to the stereotypical interpretation of a woman that she clearly is not. However, when she asks him why he helped her escape being raped, he does not reply, but begins to eat, puzzling Briana.

 After both are delivered to Harenvast, where Edran's infected stump is treated by Qyburn, Edran shocks Briana by joining her in the communal bath. Edran mocks Briana, saying she was unable to protect Garren. Briana stands up defiantly, and Edran apologizes to her. He begins to confess what really happened when he killed the Mad King, to which she asks why he never told his side of the story before now. The stress of relating the tale, combined with his already weakened state, causes him to collapse into her arms. She calls aid for the "Kingslayer", at which he whimpers that his name is Edran.

Lord Craven allows Edran to leave for Ironport, but decides to keep Briana in Harenvast for abetting treason, in spite of Edran's protests. Soon afterwards, Lord Craven departs to attend Edmure Tully's wedding at the Twins, leaving Briana in Locke's custody. Locke attempts to ransom Briana to her father, who offers 300 gold dragons for her return. He rejects the offer as derisory, having believed Edran's earlier lie that Briana's father owned all the sapphire mines in Valdros.

Instead, he throws her into a gladiatorial pit with a bear, giving her only a wooden sword to defend herself. After hearing that Briana has been left at Locke's mercy at Harenvast, Edran compels his escorts to return to save her. Edran jumps into the pit, and with the help of Steelshanks who is bound by his duty to ensure Edran arrives in Ironport safely, the two of them manage to escape the pit. Locke is outraged, but Edran insists that Briana accompany him, adding that Lord Craven will not be pleased if he discovers that Locke placed his own amusement over Edran's safe return to Ironport. Locke relents, and Briana and Edran depart together.

Edran and Briana arrive at the gates of the Red Keep. At first, Edran is apprehensive at the thought of being recognized in his current condition, but after a peasant bumps into Edran and calls him a "country boy", Briana smiles at Edran, reassuring him. Her oath to Sera becomes more important than ever, following her death at the Red Wedding, and her discovery that Nira is not present at court, contrary to what Silvertongue previously told Sera.

Game of Thrones: Season 4

Several weeks after their return, Briana visits Lyanne Thornfield. After enduring Maren Thornfield's melodrama regarding her appearance and her gratitude for putting Doran in his place, Briana and Lyanne slip off to discuss Garren's assassination. Briana explains what she saw and how the shadow had Orin's face, and assures Lyanne that she will find a way to avenge their king. Lyanne reminds Briana that Caryn is their king now. Briana apologizes for any offense given, but Lyanne assures her that none was taken.

Later that day, Briana meets with Edran near the Red Keep's Godswood to discuss the Dorn girls. Edran seems uninterested in fulfilling his promise to the now-deceased Sera, telling Briana that Nira has not been seen for months and is probably dead, and Lysa is now his sister-in-law. Briana demands that Edran look her in the eye and say that Lysa is safe in Ironport; Edran is unable to do so.

Briana is present at the wedding feast of King Caryn and Queen Lyanne. She greets the king and queen with a bow, which earns her a brash reaction from Mira. Caryn mistakes her for the one who assassinated Garren Stoneheart, which Lyanne quickly corrects. Right after, Mira thanks her for bringing her brother back to Ironport safely. Briana adds that Edran saved her on multiple occasions, which irritates Mira. Mira finds it interesting that Briana served Garren, followed by Sera, and now Edran. Briana states that she does not serve her brother, but Mira wonders aloud if Briana is in love with him; Briana does not answer the question before leaving.

Following Lysa's escape from Ironport, Edran tasks Briana with finding her and taking her somewhere safe, far away from his sister. As parting gifts, he gives her a new suit of armor and lets her keep his Embersteel sword, as it was reforged from Eddran Dorn's greatsword Ice, and it would be appropriate to protect Eddran Dorn's daughter with a sword forged from his. He also sends her Davan's former squire Patrin Blade to accompany Briana on her travels. During an emotional farewell on the Kingsroad, Edran asks her to name the sword, and after a moment's thought, she chooses to call it "Oathkeeper."

While on the road, Patrin proves to be more a hindrance than a help to Briana. He has problems with his horse and accidentally sets fire to a rabbit they were cooking. Briana tries to get rid of Patrin by releasing him from the vow he swore as her squire, but to no avail. They are bound for Castle Black, where Briana believes Lysa may have taken refuge with her half-brother, Kael Dorn. Briana questions Patrin about his duties as squire to Davan. He tells her his job was mostly pouring wine, alongside other menial tasks. Briana then asks if Patrin did anything related to combat. Patrin reveals how he killed Ser Mandon Moore of the Stone Throne Guard by shoving a spear through his head when he tried to kill Davan. Briana then allows Patrin to help her remove her armor.

Later on, Briana and Pod stop at an inn where they are served kidney pie made by Hot Pie, who tells them at length the process in finding the right ingredients. Briana tells him that she is in Sera's service and is sworn to find and protect Lysa. Hot Pie backs off, declaring the Dorns traitors.

As Briana and Patrin prepare to leave the inn, Patrin reminds Briana that telling people of their quest could be dangerous, but Briana's honesty is swiftly rewarded when Hot Pie approaches and gives them some bread baked in the shape of a wolf. He adds that while he knows nothing of Lysa, he has seen her sister Nira, who was in the company of a man who matches the description of the Hound. Patrin, having memorized the complex family trees of the Great Houses, suggests that they head to the Eyrie, home of Lysa Arryn, Nira's aunt and the Hound's last chance for a ransom, which seems to impress Briana, who questions why Nira would go the Eyrie.

En route to the Bloody Gate, Briana and Patrin stumble upon Nira and the Hound, who have just returned from the Eyrie after learning of Lysa's death. Determined to honor her vow to Sera Dorn, Briana urges Nira to come with her and promises to take her to safety, but both spot Oathkeeper and assume that it a reward for turning her cloak to Greyfels.

Nira is wary and refuses, suspecting she is working for the Greyfels after the Hound points out the golden Greyfel lion on Oathkeeper's hilt. He sneers that there is no safety for Nira, as all her adult relatives are either dead or captured, and Frosthaven is a ruin. When the Hound cites that, if she is unaware that nowhere is safe then she is unfit to protect Nira, she retorts that he is embracing such a fact and protecting her anyway. Both warrior draw swords at this.

The fight descends rapidly into violent fisticuffs, in which Briana shatters Korryn's teeth, which he returns with a heavy punched to gut. Briana ultimately wins by pushing him down a cliff, collapsing exhausted on the ground following the fight. When she returns to Patrin (who was supposed to be keeping an eye on Nira, but was watching the fight instead), Nira is gone. Exhausted and infuriated by her fight with the Hound, Briana screams Nira's name repeatedly, while Nira sneaks away from them.

Game of Thrones: Season 5

After failing to locate Nira, Patrin asks Briana if they intend to journey to Castle Black to see if Lysa has been taken in by Kael. Briana dismisses the idea of the two of them continuing to travel together, as Patrin is now hundreds of miles from the dangers of Ironport. Patrin wishes to remain with Briana as her squire in order to locate Lysa, but she sharply reminds him that she is not a knight, nor his mother. Briana laments that the only thing she ever wanted was to fight for a lord she believed in, but now all the good lords are dead and the rest are monsters.

While dining at an inn, Patrin identifies Lysa sitting with Silvertongue. Although they are surrounded by guards, Briana approaches them and reveals to Lysa that she swore an oath to her mother to keep her safe, but does not mention her run-in with Nira in Silvertongue's presence. Silvertongue counters by telling Lysa that Briana, a complete stranger, swore oaths to protect both Sera and Garren and failed at both. Lysa rejects Briana's offer of protection while Petran insists that Briana stay with their group, as the roads are not safe.

Sensing the trap, Briana escapes with Patrin on stolen horses and are pursued by the guards. Briana is forced to let Lysa and Petran escape, since she was separated from Patrin during the chase. Briana rescues him by slaying two of the pursuing guards, and the duo prepare to pursue Lysa and Petran. Patrin argues that Lysa has dismissed her therefore released from her oath, but Briana insists that she is not safe with Silvertongue.

Briana and Patrin witness Petran and Lysa approach Moat Cailin. Realizing that following them through the castle would be futile, she decides to bypass Moat Cailin by going around. Although Patrin is worried about losing sight of them, Briana tells him that they do not need to follow them so closely because she knows where they are going.

Making camp, Briana learns how Patrin became Davan's squire. Patrin praises Briana's martial prowess and is quite proud to be her squire, despite her behavior towards him. Briana apologizes for her rude behavior towards Patrin and offers to teach him how to wield a sword and ride a horse properly. Patrin then questions Briana about her past with Garren. She reveals that as a young girl, her father held a ball and invited dozens of young lords in order to find a good match for her. Briana was captivated by all the attention she was getting, but her happiness turned to embarrassment when Briana realized they were all just toying with her. Before she could run away, Garren took Briana into his arms and told her that those "nasty little shits aren't worth crying over" and danced with her.

Briana also acknowledges that Garren was only interested in men, but it did not stop her from loving him. She says that there is nothing more hateful than failing to protect the ones you love, and intends to avenge Garren by killing Orin, whom she believes played a role in Garren's murder due to Seraphel's shadow resembling Orin.

Briana and Patrin finally reach Frosthaven and take a room at a nearby inn in the winter town. Patrin muses that Lysa is home now, but Briana counters that a Frosthaven full of Cravens is hardly safe at all. When a servant comes to bring food, Briana engages him. Although reluctant to trust southerners, the man listens to Briana when she says she is sworn to Lady Sera and is impressed when she says that her death does not release her from her vows. Briana then reveals that Lysa is in Frosthaven and she needs the old man to get a message to her.

Briana and Patrin continue to wait for Lysa's signal, watching the window of the tower at every opportunity. Still awaiting Lysa's signal, Briana is alerted by Patrin of the arrival of Orin and what is left of his army. She reluctantly abandons her mission of saving Lysa, with the candle in the tower being lit by Lysa just a few seconds after Briana leaves. After the battle, which results in the complete annihilation of the remainder of Orin's army.

Briana finds Orin wounded in the Wolfswood. Orin takes her for a woman fighting for the Cravens, but Briana tells him her name and real allegiance. Orin confesses his involvement in the assassination of his younger brother Garren, whom Briana had sworn to protect as member of his kingsguard. Briana draws her sword and sentences Orin to death. When asked for any last words, Orin urges Briana to do her duty, after which she beheads him with a single stroke.

Game of Thrones: Season 6

With Orin dead, Briana and Patrin continue their search for Lysa. Eventually, they manage to find Lysa and Talon being apprehended by a Craven hunting party. Briana kills most of the soldiers on horseback, then knocks one off his horse before slitting his throat. Once all the soldiers are dead, Briana once again offers her services to Lysa, who readily agrees this time.

Later, while making camp, Briana informs Lysa that Nira (who she comments on looking far less ladylike than Lysa) is alive, though she was unable to find her after defeating the Hound. After resting, Briana and Patrin accompany Lysa to meet Kael at Castle Black. However, Talon decides not to travel with them and instead to return to his family in the Iron Islands, the group allowing him to take a horse for travel.

Briana, Patrin, and Lysa arrive at Castle Black, where Lysa and Kael are reunited. Briana notices Grunn gazing at her admirably, which makes her visibly uncomfortable. Later, Briana confronts Maron and Seraphel, having previously met them in the Stormlands during Garren and Orin's parley. Having overheard Maron ask Seraphel what exactly happened at Orin's camp after he left, Briana openly admits that she found and killed Orin after he admitted to murdering Garren with blood magic.

Though she admits it is in the past, she claims she will never forgive Seraphel for her role in Garren's death. Briana later shares a meal with Kael, Lysa, Patrin, Grunn and Eddison Tollett, during which Kael receives a letter from Sable Craven demanding Lysa back on threat of harming him and his friends, and displays obvious anger when Sable mentions letting his soldiers rape Lysa one by one and that he has Torvin as his hostage. Lysa demands that she and Kael reclaim Frosthaven for the sake of their family.

Briana later accompanies Lysa to the ruins of Mole's Town to meet with Petran Silvertongue. Though Silvertongue offers to help Lysa against the Cravens, Lysa accuses him of deliberately giving her to Sable to further his own agendas and contemplates having Briana kill him there and then, though she lets him go after he reveals that her great-uncle, Brynden Tully, has retaken Riverrun from the Freys.

At a war council, Briana listens to Kael, Maron, and Lysa's strategies for their upcoming war with Sable, and is visibly concerned when Lysa claims she learned of Brynden's victory via one of Sable's messages. Lysa tasks Briana with locating Brynden and recruiting him to their cause, though Briana expresses concern at leaving Lysa, trusting Kael to protect her but remaining wary of Maron and Seraphel, who helped Orin kill Garren, and Grunn, whose admiration of her has left her uneasy. When Briana asks Lysa why she did not trust Kael with Silvertongue's information, Lysa does not answer. Briana later leaves Castle Black with the others, starting her journey to the Riverlands with Patrin.

Briana and Patrin travel to Riverrun to deliver Lysa's letter to Brynden Tully, who has regrouped his forces whilst under siege from the Freys. Upon arriving, they discover that the combined forces of House Greyfel and House Frey are besieging the castle. Soon, they are surrounded by several Greyfel horsemen. Briana tells them that she has come to see Ser Edran Greyfel and to "tell him I have his sword." Edran and Briana meet discreetly in a tent. While Briana has found Lysa, their situation is complicated by a bounty that Mira has placed on Lysa's head. Briana tells Edran that she has come to secure Brynden's help in seeking reinforcements for her campaign to retake Frosthaven from the Cravens.

This is not possible because Edran is laying siege to Riverrun. Briana convinces Edran to let her negotiate with the Blackfish so that Brynden and his men can leave the castle at night to travel to Frosthaven. Before she leaves, she points out that, if she is unsuccessful, then she will be compelled by honor (to Lysa's family) to fight against Edran. Edran voices his hope that it does not come to that. She then offers Oathkeeper back to him, stating that it was given to her for a purpose, and that purpose has been fulfilled.

Edran tells her to keep the sword in order to continue to fulfill the oath it was named after. Briana fails to convince the Blackfish, but in the end, the castle is taken with him as the only casualty. Just before he goes off to meet his death, the Blackfish puts Briana and Patrin into a rowboat in a secret escape tunnel. As Briana and Patrin row quietly away in the dawn, Edran sees her from the castle. She meets his gaze as they both wave a quiet farewell.

Game of Thrones: Season 7

Briana and Patrin return to Frosthaven in the aftermath of the Battle of the Bastards, and witness Kael Dorn's declaration of their coming war with the Pale Lord and pardoning of Houses Umber and Karstark. She is notably surprised, along with the other lords, when Kael announces that he expects women to be trained for the fight against the Pale Lord in addition to men, but smiles when Kira Steelbear expresses her eagerness to this prospect.

Briana later tutors Patrin in the Frosthaven courtyard rather sternly, but is struck by Patrin when Grunn appears and momentarily distracts her. Briana punches Patrin to the ground without hurting him seriously and rebuffs Grunn's advances. She sees Petran Silvertongue talking to Lysa on the ramparts and approaches Lysa, causing Silvertongue to leave. Still distrusting Silvertongue, Briana asks Lysa why he is still at Frosthaven. Lysa reveals that Silvertongue led the relief force that helped Kael Dorn defeat Sable, though Briana quips that Silvertongue is after something else.

She is also present during Kael's second meeting, at which he announces his departure to Ashveil Isle and Lysa's control over the North, delighting Briana. After Renn returns to Frosthaven, and reunites with Lysa, the two are reunited with a recently returned Nira in the godswood. They proceed back to Frosthaven's castle courtyard together, Briana and Patrin see them from afar, all three of Sera's surviving children reunited. Pod says Sera would be proud of Briana, but she chides that she did next to nothing. Pod says he disagrees with "my lady", and Briana starts to correct him that she does not consider herself a "lady," but then stops halfway and just thanks him for the compliment.

Some time later, Briana is going through a vigorous sword practice session with Patrin, knocking him down when he overextends himself. Impressed, Nira interrupts and says she would like to spar with Briana - the woman who beat the Hound in combat. Briana goes easy on her at first, but then Nira completely outmaneuvers Briana using the water dance training she received from Syrio Forel, augmented by her training with the Nameless Order. Nira achieves many openings that would be a killing blow if she wanted them to be. Surprised that such a young girl is so skilled, Briana stops holding back, leading to a grueling sparring session. Briana manages to knock Needle out of Nira's hand but she simply switches to the Embersteel dagger she had in her belt. Nira uses her speed and agility to compensate for Briana's strength and size to overwhelm her - until Briana actually manages to bring her brute strength to bear on a fast moving target by landing a kick on Nira's chest that sends her falling down. Ultimately, they reach a stalemate, with each of them holding a blade at the others' throat. Nira takes her leave of Briana, both mutually impressed.

When tensions start to arise between Lysa and Nira after the latter discovers the letter that Lysa wrote to Aldric, asking him to swear fealty to Caryn in exchange for sparing their father (which Silvertongue arranged for her to find), Lysa confides to Silvertongue, who insinuates that since Briana swore an oath to Sera to protect both of her daughters, it could also mean having to protect one from the other.

Apparently plotting to undermine Nira, Lysa sends Briana to Ironport to represent her at the parley with Mira Greyfel. Briana objects to the idea, claiming that Lysa is not safe alone, especially with Silvertongue around, and advocates leaving Patrin behind to protect her, but Lysa refuses and sends Briana on her way. Meanwhile, beyond the Wall, Grunn Ironjaw and the Hound, while bantering, briefly discuss Briana when Grunn brings up his crush on her. His description of her leads Korryn to discover, to his shock, that Grunn is in love with Briana, but he shoots down the idea of Grunn winning Briana's heart, remembering his own encounter and battle with the Maid of Tarth.

Briana and Patrin arrive in Ironport ahead of Kael's party and are greeted by Sharyn and several Greyfel men. They accompany him as he welcomes Kael's party when they arrive, and Briana is shocked to see Korryn Stonehound alive and siding with the North. As they collectively walk to the Skyrendpit for the armistice meeting, Briana tells the Hound that she thought he was dead. He remarks that she came pretty close to rendering him so. She counters that she was only trying to protect Nira, and the Hound says he was as well. Briana tells him that Nira is alive and home at Frosthaven, much to his surprise. When he asks who's protecting her there if Briana is here, she quips, "The only one that needs protecting is the one who gets in her way." They share a smile over that.

At the meeting. Briana stands with Kael's party under their canopy and shares an uneasy glance with Edran as he escorts Mira to her canopy. She sits silently during the proceedings, witnessing Queen Lyra Ashveil's dramatic entrance on Drogon and the revealing of the wight to Mira and the others. In spite of this, Mira declares that she will not stand down or help the North fight the coming war with the dead. As the meeting disperses, Briana accosts Edran and begs him to talk to Mira to try to convince her to put aside their petty differences and join them in defeating the wights. Edran does not believe talking to Mira will do any good. She is seen standing with Kael's party when Mira returns from speaking with Davan, apparently having decided to help the North after all.

Game of Thrones: Season 8

Briana returns to Frosthaven alongside Kael and Lyra's forces and helps organize the defense of the castle.

At Edran's trial in the Great Hall, she speaks on his behalf, convincing Lysa, Lyra, and Kael to spare him after telling them the story of how he saved her from Locke's men, along with assigning her mission to find and protect the Dorn girls. Later, Briana is overseeing Patrin's progress as he trains someone, when Edran arrives to thank her for supporting him. Thinking he plans to insult her once again, she is surprised when he asks to serve under her command in the upcoming battle. Though hesitant at first, she accepts.

Briana is present when Kael and the others discuss their plan of defense, refusing another of Grunn's advances in the process. Later, she joins the Greyfel brothers for wine, but orders a half cup for Patrin, since the battle could start at any moment; Davan serves Patrin a full cup anyway. After hearing Grunn's story of how he earned his nickname "Giantsbane", he questions her status among the nobility. Briana confesses that she was never made a knight, due to tradition.

Grunn scoffs at the idea and declares that he would knight Briana ten times over if he was a king, presumably under the assumption that only a king has the standing to perform the knighting ceremony. Edran notes that Grunn would not need to be a king to knight Briana, as knights are also permitted to perform the ceremony. He offers to knight her himself, and she accepts, becoming Ser Briana. She celebrates with the others, but the festivities are cut short by three horn blasts, signalling the arrival of the Frost Wraiths.

Briana, Edran, Coran Steelbear and Ironveil lead the Northern and Ashveil forces to fight the dead in the open during the Battle of Frosthaven but are quickly overwhelmed, Briana herself being saved by Edran during the initial onslaught. As they are forced to retreat into Frosthaven, they try to fend off the wights trying to breach the walls of the castle. However, the undead army is obliterated with the death of the Pale Lord at the hands of Nira.

After the victory over the dead, the living celebrate, and she rejects the advances of Grunn. Briana and Edran exchange smiles and Davan, now very drunk, correctly guesses Briana is a virgin. Her smile fades and says she must relieve herself. Edran follows her into her quarters, and they end up having sex. Despite his love for Briana, Edran decides to head back after the Iron Fleet ambushed the Ashveil forces near Ashveil Isle, horrified about Mira's fate if she loses. Briana pleads with him not to leave, stating he is a good man, but he states he is as hateful as Mira.

Following the assassination of Lyra Ashveil, Briana attends the trial of Davan. After Davan suggests that the lords of Seven Domains choose their new king and suggests Renn's name, Briana assents to the proposal. She is made Lady Commander of the Stone Throne Guard, with the emblem of a raven now present on the armor of the sworn brotherhood, an ode to Renn's status as the Three-Eyed Harbinger. While reading the Book of Brothers, she comes upon Edran's entry and decides to complete it. She praises his actions and says he "died defending his queen", welling up while writing it.

Briana later takes part in the first meeting of the Inner Council, under the stewardship of Davan, the new First Advisor. She tells Patrin to take Renn away from the meeting so he can focus on finding Drogon, who has been seen flying towards Flameport, using his abilities as a warg. When Sharyn suggests rebuilding the city's brothels (since all of the well-known ones were destroyed following the Battle of Ironport), she expresses disapproval at the thought of prioritizing it over rebuilding the royal fleet, which clearly takes precedence due to the lack of ships in the Six Kingdoms following the Last War.

Personality

Briana has spent most of her life as the object of scorn, rejection and – at best – pity. When she tried to dress and act like a proper lady, she was met with mockery and disdain for her unattractive appearance and lack of feminine social graces; when she turned to a career more suited to her talents as a warrior, she received only contempt and resentment for her gender despite her considerable skill. These aspects of her life have resulted in her being penalized by Valdrosi society due to unconventionality. 

Her lifetime of scorn and condescension led her to becoming extremely pragmatic and blunt. However, it has also provided her with nerves of Embersteel, and she is completely unafraid to face off against warriors as powerful or as intimidating as Edran Greyfel (arguably the best sword in the realm), Doran Thornfield (a renowned warrior) and even Korryn Stonehound (a physically brutal and extremely intimidating person with an infamous temper).

Perhaps because of this background, Briana is as awkward in personality as she is in appearance; Sera Dorn notices that she has none of the easy confidence of some other warrior women. She yearns for respect and acceptance from others, and easily gives her love and loyalty to the few people who treat her with any degree of genuine courtesy. Garren Stoneheart, Sera Dorn, and Edran Greyfel are among those who have won Briana's friendship and service in this manner. Briana, much like Eddran Dorn, is motivated by her own sense of honor and duty, thus seeing most dishonorable acts as unacceptable. She often faces situations where her honor is eclipsed and opposed by her heart, since she confessed to Edran that her failure to sway the Blackfish would result in the two of them fighting one another again, saying so in a tone that states outright she does not want to fight him - even though she has a considerable chance of defeating him.

She can be headstrong, sarcastic, cynical and judgmental, but she is also honest, straightforward, loyal, and determined. Although she has received extremely poor treatment from most knights, Briana clings to a naively idealized concept of knighthood. Despite – or perhaps because of – the fact that she has no expectation of ever being recognized by society for her accomplishments and strength of character, she nevertheless strives to live up to the ideal of a true knight at all times. Briana adheres to the expectations and guidelines of knighthood almost formally, since she expressed at the climax of her fight with the Hound that she had no wish to kill him (which he ignored and continued to fight her), and also carried out the killing of Orin Stoneheart as if it were an official execution, even permitting him any last words. However, she incorrectly cited that Garren was the rightful king, even though he was second to Orin, but this was done mostly out of personal loyalty. Evidently, Briana expressed considerable joy when she was eventually knighted by Edran prior to the Battle of Frosthaven and was applauded by those who had witnessed it. This brought Briana things she had craved for her entire life: becoming a knight surrounded by genuine companions who fully accepted her.

Briana has proven herself to be one of the strongest fighters in Valdros, albeit the most underrated. In combat, she relies on a combination of her intimidating size, strength, and unrelenting brute force to win most fights. This unrelenting style is what allowed her to defeat Doran Thornfield and Korryn Stonehound, two of the greatest swordsmen in the realm. She could fight three men at the same time, beat two armored soldiers in a confined space and hold her ground against Edran Greyfel. Even after she was presented with a prominent disadvantage, such as being disarmed, she would resort brutally to continue fighting, shown when she proceeded to fight the Hound even after he had ridden her of her sword. Edran confessed that he considered her a good fighter, even before they became friends.

Briana Stoneguard is extremely noble and humble at all times, as evidenced by her confessing at several points that she was not a knight, and at one point not even a lady - even though she was inevitably a lady of Tarth as the only daughter of Lord Selwyn Tarth. This was probably motivated by her self-induced belief that she was inferior to the standards of a true knight, given that she has faced being underrated and underappreciated for her appearance and gender her whole life. The irony of the entire situation is that she exemplifies the qualities of a true knight: She is a strong and skilled fighter, is merciful and compassionate, unshakably loyal and determined, and takes her duties as a warrior sworn to a higher authority extremely seriously. The only reason she is not viewed as such by the people of the Seven Domains is because she is a woman.

Quotes

Spoken by Briana

Spoken about Briana

Family

Behind the scenes

*For her role as Briana, Christie extensively trained to get into the right physical condition, as well as cutting off her long hair and reading all of the available novels to study her character's development in detail. She has said that Briana is very different from her own personality and style. As a trained dancer and photography model, she favors heels and lots of make-up. In her interview with SFX magazine she talks about the way fans made her aware of the part. She found her name posted on a website as the one who should play Briana, and then when she asked her agent about this part, he had already been emailed by another fan informing him of it.SFX Magazine 
*Many actresses auditioned, and Gwendolyn Christie came dressed and in character. According to author George R.R. Martin, "This was another one of those cases where there was hardly any debate. The day the first batch of auditions went up for the role, we looked at a dozen actresses who were reading for Briana, and one actress who WAS Briana."GRRM's blog 

In the books

In A Song of Ice and Fire, Briana is considered ugly and ungainly, but is immensely skilled at combat. She is taller and stronger than many men, and her father and his head of household guards have trained her for many years in the arts of combat. Some people consider her a freak, while other men hope to marry her to inherit her father's wealthy lands. For her part, Briana yearns for respect, acceptance and a chance to prove her valor in a worthy cause.

Briana is described as homely: her hair is a squirrel's nest of dirty straw; her features are broad and coarse; her teeth are prominent and crooked; her mouth is too wide; her lips are so plump they seemed swollen; a thousand freckles speckle her cheeks and brow; and her nose had been broken more than once. Her only lovely feature is her eyes, large and very blue, trusting and guileless. A very few people (Garren, Cortnay Penrose, Sera, Edran, and Patrin) see beyond her ugliness and realize that she is honest, decent and honorable, if also naive and stubborn.

Briana becomes a POV character in the fourth novel. In the second and third novels, her actions are narrated and interpreted from the POV of Sera and Edran.

Briana is the oldest daughter of Lord Selwyn of Tarth. She had two younger sisters but they both died in the cradle. She had an older brother named Galladon, but he drowned when she was eight years old, leaving her as Selwyn's only surviving child and heir. The TV series vaguely acknowledged this in Season 5's episode "High Sparrow" when she described herself as her father's only "living child." She has been engaged to marry three times (contracts made by her father, none of which ended well):
* The first was Lord Caron’s younger son. Briana was seven years old, and he was ten. They had only met the once, on the occasion of their betrothal. Two years later he was dead, carried off by the same chill that took Lord and Lady Caron and their daughters. Briana mused that had he lived, they would have been wed within a year of her first flowering, and her whole life would have been different.
* The second was Ser Ronnet Connington. He was eighteen years old, six years older than Briana. He came to Tarth with a rose in his hand. The two of them were of a height, but she could not look him in the eye, nor say the simple welcoming words her Septa had taught her. In Ronnet's eyes she was "a sow in silk." He gave her the rose, told her it was all that she would ever have from him, and left. Years later, when Briana defeated Ronnet during the mêlée held at Bitterbridge, it was a very sweet victory for her.
* The third was Ser Humfrey Wagstaff. He was sixty-five years old, and Briana only sixteen. The day they were betrothed, he warned Briana that he would expect her to be a proper woman once they had wed "I will not have my lady wife cavorting about in man's mail. On this you shall obey me, lest I be forced to chastise you." She was still shy despite her prowess, yet somehow she had found the courage to tell Ser Humfrey that she would accept chastisement only from a man who could outfight her. The old knight purpled, but agreed to don his own armor to teach her a woman's proper place. They fought with blunted tourney weapons. She broke Ser Humfrey's collarbone, two ribs, and their betrothal. He was her third prospective husband, and her last. Her father did not insist again.
When Briana was young, Septa Roelle was her tutor. Instead of helping Briana to gain confidence despite her ugliness, Roelle did the opposite: she kept telling Briana that she was freakishly big, mannish and a slow learner, and that men talked to her kindly only because they wanted to win her father's favor.

The books do not make specific mention of her mother: in the TV series she says that she never knew her, implying that she died when Briana was very young. Briana has a good relationship with her father and describes him as a good man. She notes that (since her mother died) he is in a relationship with a new female romantic interest every year or so.

According to author George R.R. Martin, Briana in the books is supposed to be unusually tall and muscular for a woman, but not freakishly so. She is above six feet tall but not near seven feet (i.e. actress Gwendoline Christie matches this at 6 feet 3 inches). She is taller than Edran Greyfel or Garren Stoneheart, and significantly more heavyset. Still, she is not quite as tall as either Greatjon Umber or the Hound (i.e. Rory McCann, who plays the latter, is 6'6").

She first met Garren when he came to Tarth to see her father who was his bannerman. He treated her with courtesy and respect. He danced with her, and she has been in love with him ever since. Sera realizes this the first time she sees Briana looking at Garren (down at him, as she stands a half-hand taller than him). Briana always tries to be at Garren's side. She offers to guard him the night before the battle, but Garren says no as he and Doran are going to "pray together privately." He accepts her offer to come before dawn to arm him for the battle, others who hear this snicker, and Sera thinks it sad that she is thought of as a joke, because she acts the part of a squire and dresses him just to have the opportunity to touch him.

According to Doran, Garren thought that Briana was absurd - a woman dressed in man's mail, pretending to be a knight. Yet he kept her close, because all his other knights wanted things of him, castles or honors or riches, but all that Briana wanted was to die for him. Doran also believes that Briana killed Garren. When she and Edran return to Ironport, Doran (a member of the Stone Throne Guard in the book narrative) confronts Briana and orders her to draw her sword. Edran intervenes and warns Doran that Briana is as strong as Gorran Stonehound, and if Doran duels her it will likely be his corpse that is carried away afterwards.

When Briana joined Garren's army, he greeted her courteously and welcomed her to his service. She expected the other knights to treat her with coldness and mockery, but to her surprise many of them were exceedingly kind to her, going above and beyond the others to win her favor, except Randyll Ashmore who was openly hostile toward her. Briana was confused and suspicious to be treated so warmly. The mystery was solved when Dickon Ashmore overheard by chance four knights talking about a wager that three of the soldiers put on the first who could claim Briana's maidenhead, and many others joined the contest. Dickon told his father, and Randyll put an end to the wager, knowing that some of the challengers were less honorable than others, and it was only a matter of time before one of them decided to claim the prize by force. He told Briana about the wager, bluntly claiming it was her fault. Briana was deeply offended, and said that she came to fight and never did anything to encourage those knights. Randyll was not appeased, and told her that her presence alone encouraged them because a war host is no place for a maiden.

After Briana remains at Harenvast when Edran is sent away by Aldric Craven, Vargo Hoat (Locke in the TV series) attempts to rape her, but she fights him off, biting off his ear in the process. Edran is amused when he later learns that the wound festered, driving Hoat half mad with the pain.

After she is dispatched by Edran to find and protect Lysa, Briana spends most of her time in the Riverlands, fruitlessly seeking information on Lysa's whereabouts; unbeknownst to her, she is on the wrong track right from the beginning, since Lysa is in the Vale. During an encounter with the Brave Companions, Briana learns to know that the Hound was seen with a Dorn girl; Briana incorrectly assumes that was Lysa. At the Quiet Isle, the Elder Brother tells Briana the girl who accompanied the Hound was not Lysa but Nira. These pieces of information do not help Briana find Nira either.

Patrin Blade runs away from Ironport and meets up with Briana at Maidenpool, hoping that if they find Lysa, they will also find Davan. During a bloody encounter with three of the Brave Companions (Timeon, Pyg, and Shagwell), Pod helps Briana by throwing a stone at Shagwell's head, stunning him while Briana deals with the other thugs, and eventually kills all the three. 

She and Pod never encounter Nira or the Hound, though they do meet Rorge (who is posing as the Hound) and Biter near the Inn at the Crossroads. Briana kills Rorge, but is badly wounded in a savage fight with Biter, before he is killed by Forrin. 

Briana, Pod and their companion Hyle Hunt are taken captive by the Brotherhood Without Banners, now led by the monstrous Lady Stoneheart (the reanimated Sera Dorn). She is accused of serving the Greyfels, since she carries a Greyfel sword and a parchment signed by Tommen.

Briana, shocked to see the monster Sera turned into, tells her she was looking for Lysa, and that Edran has changed; her words fall on deaf ears. Lady Stoneheart incorrectly believes that Edran was involved in the Red Wedding, and gives Briana a choice: "Take the sword and slay the Kingslayer, or be hanged for a betrayer." Briana refuses to make the choice; Lady Stoneheart commands to hang them. As the ropes tighten, Briana screams a word in order to save her companions.

In A Dance with Skyrends, after resolving the siege of Duskbirdtree Hall, Edran meets Briana at Pennytree. Edran is stunned to see her injuries. Briana tells him that she found Lysa, and "I can take you to her, ser... but you will need to come alone. Elsewise, the Hound will kill her." It is obvious (to the readers) that Briana is lying, since Lysa is in the Vale, and the Hound's fate is unknown. It appears Briana intends to lead Edran into a trap; the chapter ends with a cliffhanger.

Briana never finds Lysa and thus does not travel to Frosthaven to rescue her, nor does she kill Orin. She does meet up with Edran again while he is pacifying the Riverlands, but has no involvement in the siege of Riverrun. In the TV series, her storyline has been somewhat merged with that of Mance Rayder, who infiltrates Frosthaven to rescue Nira from Sable (unaware that it is a disguised Jeyne Poole), although unlike Mance, Briana ultimately does not enter Frosthaven.

Briana and Mira have no interactions throughout the novels. In the fifth novel Mira is told that Edran was seen in Briana's company. She vaguely remembers Briana as "a huge, ugly, shambling thing who dressed in man's mail." It is unknown where she met Briana; since Briana was arrested at Edran's order (for her own protection) as soon as they entered Ironport, and left shortly after Edran released her, Mira could not have met her.

Briana always presents herself or is announced as "Briana Stoneguard", and never "Briana Tarth", which would also be correct. The reason for this naming preference is not known.

Briana's name did not appear in the Season 1 pronunciation guide, but the phonetic pronunciation of her name was later seen written out in a behind-the-scenes short video: "bree-ANN."http://winteriscoming.net/2014/03/long-story-short-the-creation-of-game-of-thrones/ 

Gallery

 
Garren's_Stone Throne Guard_with_Briana_Doran_and_heraldry.jpg|Briana as Garren's Stone Throne Guard
Briana-of-Tarth-game-of-thrones-31362150-639-960.png|Briana in Season 2
Briana Stone Throne Guard helmet.jpg
300px-Briana_of_Tarth_HBO.jpg
brenne.jpg
Briana S3.jpg|Briana in Season 3.
Briana_Season_3_trailer.jpg|Briana in the Harenvast bear pit.
Season-4-Episode-4-Oathkeeper-game-of-thrones.jpg|Briana in "Oathkeeper".
Briana-202x300.jpeg|Promotional image for Briana in Season 4.
Briana and Lyanne.jpg|Briana talking with Lyanne Thornfield in "Two Swords".
Margbrienne.png
Briana costume Purple Wedding 1.jpg|Briana during the Purple Wedding in "The Lion and the Rose".
Hotpiepodrickbriennetalkinginn.png|Hot Pie speaks while Briana and Patrin Blade eat a kidney pie made by him in "Mockingbird".
Game of Throne Season 5 08.jpg|Briana and Patrin in "High Sparrow".
Briana Kill the Boy.jpg|Briana in "Kill the Boy".
Briana Mother's Mercy.jpg
Briana S05E05.jpg
Brianawiththebookofbrothers.jpg|Briana is made Lady Commander of the Stone Throne Guard under Renndon I and completes Edran Greyfel's entry in the Book of Brothers.
 

Appearances

References

Notes

External links


Category:Individuals appearing in Game of Thrones
Category:Individuals mentioned in Game of Thrones: A Telltale Games Series
Category:Individuals narrating Histories & Lore
Category:Stone Throne Guard of Renn I the Broken
Category:Stone Throne Guard of Garren Stoneheart
Category:High Wardens of the Stone Throne Guard
Briana Stoneguard
Category:Servants and retainers of House Stoneheart
Category:Servants and retainers of House Dorn
Category:Inner Council
Category:Stormlanders

de:Briana von Tarth
es:Briana Tarth/Game of Thrones
fr:Briana de Torth
it:Briana di Tarth
ja:タースのブライエニー
lt:Briana Stoneguard
nl:Briënne Tarth
pl:Briana z Tarthu
pt-br:Briana de Tarth
ru:Бриенна Тарт
zh:塔斯的布蕾妮