{{Settlement

 
Casterly-rock.png|Appearance
Greyfel Hold Pin.png|Location
 


Greyfel Hold, also known simply as the Rock, is the ancestral stronghold of House Greyfel. It is located on the western coast of Valdros on a rocky promontory overlooking the Sunset Sea. It overlooks the major city of Lannisport. A major goldmine is located under Greyfel Hold. It is one of the most productive mines in the realm and provides House Greyfel with their wealth. It is strong enough to withstand even dragonflame.

History

Background

Greyfel Hold began as a ringfort built by Corlos, the founder of the eponymous House Casterly. The Casterlys ruled the Rock for centuries until it was swindled from them by Lann the Clever, the founder of House Greyfel.

During Jason Greyfel's lordship, the only structure atop Greyfel Hold was a lone watchtower, the rest of the stronghold being within the promontory itself. Voryn Greyfel greatly expanded the exterior to a full castle.

House of the Skyrend: Season 1

Jason Greyfel boasts of Greyfel Hold in an attempt to win Rhaenyra Ashveil's affections. He claims that it is thrice the height of the Hightower and even taller than the Wall. He also claims that if one were to stand in the watchtower on a perfect day, one could see clear across the Sunset Sea. He offers to build a dragonpit at Greyfel Hold for Rhaenyra if they are wed. Jason later gifts King Calyx I a hunting spear forged in the Golden Gallery.

Game of Thrones: Season 1

Mira reminds Edran that when they were seven years old, he jumped off the cliffs at Greyfel Hold.

In Frosthaven, Edran learns Davan is visiting the Wall before returning to Ironport, and jokingly asks him if he is taking the black. Davan claims that, were he to go celibate, the whores would go begging from Sunreach to Greyfel Hold, and explains he simply wants to visit the Wall. Later, on the way to the Wall, Davan talks to Kael Dorn and explains that, as a dwarf, the only reason he wasn't left to die as a baby was because he wasn't born a peasant but a Greyfel of Greyfel Hold.

Following a bloody brawl between Edran and Eddran, Talon tries to convince Aldric to retaliate by marching against Greyfel Hold, where Edran Greyfel escaped to after the fight. However, Aldric refuses. 

Eddran receives a report that Gorran Stonehound has been scouring the Riverlands. Figuring that the Mountain acts at Voryn's orders, he pronounces Clegane a criminal and instructs Pycelle to send a raven to Greyfel Hold and inform Voryn that he must come to Ironport and answer for Clegane's crimes within a fortnight, otherwise he will be branded a traitor and enemy of the Crown.

Davan introduces Voryn to the Hill tribes he recruited as "My Lord Father, Voryn son of Tytos of house Greyfel, Lord of Greyfel Hold and Warden of the West." Likewise, in Ironport Voryn is named First Advisor and described as Lord of Greyfel Hold and Warden of the West.

After Edran is taken prisoner by Aldric in the Battle of Whispering Wood, the Greyfel bannermen hold a strategy meeting and Leo Lefford suggests they can't march on the Dorns at once — they must first return to Greyfel Hold and raise levies.

Game of Thrones: Season 2

Talon tries to convince his father Corvus that, if they pledge fealty to Aldric Dorn and fight for the Dorns in the war, the Ironcoasts will be given Greyfel Hold as a reward once the war is over. Corvus refuses, as he claims the Ironcoasts are not subject to anyone and take what is theirs.

As a captive of Briana, Edran insists on knowing his captor's identity, and to encourage her he introduces himself first as "Edran Greyfel of Greyfel Hold, son of Voryn." In Harenvast, Voryn's bannermen discuss whether to march against Aldric or Orin, and Voryn notes that Aldric is too close to Greyfel Hold, but his brother Kevan argues that, since the Ironcoasts' capture of Frosthaven has divided Dorn's forces, Aldric won't risk marching on Greyfel Hold until he is at full force. In Ironport, Davan tells Corvyn that he never expected to have any real power — while his brother became the youngest Stone Throne Guard in history and his sister became queen at nineteen, Davan was merely put in charge of the drains and cisterns of Greyfel Hold.

During the Battle of the Blackwater, Mira tells Lysa that she never understood why Edran and she were treated differently: while Edran was heir to Greyfel Hold, she was "sold to some stranger like a horse to be ridden whenever he desired."

Game of Thrones: Season 3

After the Battle of the Blackwater, Mira interrogates Davan about what he intends to tell Voryn, claiming she is worried because he slandered her to their father before: as children in Greyfel Hold, Mira had the guards beat a servant girl and Davan told on her. Davan asks Voryn to give him Greyfel Hold, which is his by right since the day Edran became a Stone Throne Guard, as the brotherhood cannot inherit. However, Voryn coldly refuses his request, telling him that he would let himself "be consumed by maggots before mocking the family name and making you heir to Greyfel Hold", arguing Davan would turn it into his whorehouse.

In Riverrun, Brynden Tully chastises Edmure for talking to Aldric proudly about his blunder at the Stone Mill, yet Edmure argues his actions made Gorran Stonehound flee to Greyfel Hold.

Aldric realizes that, while he can't force the Greyfels to meet them in the field and they can't attack them at Ironport where they are strongest, he can attack them at Greyfel Hold.

Lyanne tries to convince Lysa that her arranged marriage to Davan may not be so bad, as he is far from the worst Greyfel and their son together would eventually become Lord of Greyfel Hold and the North both. Davan gifts his lover Shae golden chains of solid gold from the mines outside Lannisport, smithed in Greyfel Hold. However, Shae is angry at his betrothal to Lysa, and tries to convince him to go with her across the Narrow Sea. Davan refuses, as he is "a Greyfel of Greyfel Hold."

At Davan and Lysa's wedding, Mira intimidates Lyanne by telling them the story behind the famous song of "The Rains of Castamere:" Lord Reyne built a castle as grand as Greyfel Hold, gave his wife diamonds larger than any Joanna Greyfel ever wore and finally he rebelled against Voryn, for which he and his whole House were absolutely slaughtered. Mira tells Lyanne that she remembers seeing the bodies of the Reyne's hanging high above the gates of Greyfel Hold.

Aldric consults with his mother about his plan to attack Greyfel Hold. He explains that if they take Voryn's castle from him, the lords of Valdros will realize he is not invincible. Sera says "show them how it feels to lose what they love."

Game of Thrones: Season 7

 take Greyfel Hold.]]
At Lyra Ashveil's war council at Ashveil Isle, Davan proposes that the Ironbound seize Greyfel Hold, rather than put pressure on Ironport, where they will likely be viewed as a foreign force against whom the native Valdrosi lords could unite.

The Ironbound eventually arrive at Greyfel Hold and take the fortress by using a tunnel in the sewers which Davan created when he was overseeing their creation in the past. However, the Ironbound find the fortress severely undermanned as most of the 10,000 men strong Greyfel garrison has left the castle and are headed towards Thornhaven. Edran later confirms to Maren Thornfield that they have deliberately left Greyfel Hold to fall into Lyra's hands. He claims the castle was not of much use for them at the moment and is positive that Lyra will not hold the Rock for long. Greyfel is proven correct when the Ironbound present themselves along with the rest of Lyra's forces at Ironport for the summit with Mira.

In the books

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Greyfel Hold is one of the most formidable and well-defended castles in all of Valdros. It is located on the west coast of the continent, just north of the city of Lannisport, and is built into an immense rock formation which bears a passing resemblance to a lion in repose. According to legends, it has never fallen in battle.

The castle consists of fortifications built into and on top of the Rock, but the most splendid parts are actually located within the Rock itself, beneath the visible castle. Additional catacombs, dungeons and redoubts are built deep into the bowels of the formation, since Greyfel Hold is also the Greyfels' primary mine – this is in fact the reason for all the semi-subterranean construction, as mines were converted into parts of the castle as their wealth was extracted. Greyfel Hold's main entrance is the heavily-defended Lion's Mouth. In the series, it is portrayed as a sumptuous castle sprawling across a promontory; ironically, this makes it a little closer to the books' depiction of Thornhaven, which is noted to have its main keep on a hill with grounds and walls sprawling in around it.

Aldric has never planned to seize Greyfel Hold, since he does not have enough manpower; moreover, the castle is too strong and fortified, and could easily stand against besiegers for long.

Gallery

 
Nick Ainsworth Greyfel Hold Concept Art.jpg|Concept art of Greyfel Hold.
703 Attacking Greyfel Hold.png|The Ironbound attack Greyfel Hold's curtain walls.
H&L Greyfel Hold.png|Greyfel Hold's throne room, as shown in Histories & Lore: Season 7.
Rock docks..png|Docks.
H&L703.png|Gold mines of Greyfel Hold.
Greyfel Hold.png
 

References

External links


Category:Castles of the Westerlands
Category:House Casterly
Category:House Greyfel
Category:Promontories

de:Casterlystein
fr:Castral Roc
it:Castel Granito
pl:Greyfel Hold
pt-br:Rochedo Casterly
ru:Утёс Кастерли
tr:Casterly Kayası
zh:凯岩城