{{Character

 
CERSEIBATTLEOFKINGSLANDING.PNG|Adult
Young Mira.png|Adolescent
 


Queen Mira I Greyfel was the twentieth ruler of the Seven Domains and the widow of King Harald Stoneheart. She was the daughter of Lord Voryn Greyfel, twin sister of Edran Greyfel and elder sister of Davan Greyfel. She was involved in an incestuous relationship with Edran, who was secretly the father of her three bastard children, Caryn, Myrcella and Tommen.

After all her children died, Mira assumed the throne, making her the first officially recognized queen regnant in the history of the Seven Domains. Her reign came to an abrupt end during the Battle of Ironport, where she and Edran were killed. She was the last monarch to sit on the Stone Throne.

Biography

Background

Mira was the only daughter and eldest child of Lord Voryn and Lady Joanna Greyfel. Mira was the elder twin of Edran Greyfel and the elder sister of Davan Greyfel. She was raised in the family seat of Greyfel Hold.HBO viewers guide, season 2 guide to houses, House Stoneheart of Ironport - Mira Stoneheart entry  She was known for her great beauty as a young girl.

Mira's mother died when she was four years old, after giving birth to her younger brother Davan. Like her father, Mira always blamed Davan for her mother's death and deeply resented that her mother died so that Davan would be brought into the world.HBO viewers guide, season 2 guide to houses, House Stoneheart of Ironport - Davan Greyfel entry  Voryn was constantly away from home during Mira’s childhood and teenage years, serving as First Advisor at the capital, with only infrequent visits back to his seat at Greyfel Hold. Coupled with the death of her mother, this meant that Mira and her two brothers were primarily raised by servants attached to House Greyfel. She began an incestuous relationship with Edran in her youth which continued despite her marriage. While Mira had other partners in King’s Landing, Edran always kept himself strictly for her.

When she was about fifteen, Mira and her friend Melara visited Maggy, a woods witch and reputed fortune teller dwelling in a hut deep in a forest close to Greyfel Hold. Melara was reluctant, but Mira convinced her to go. After rudely awakening her and insisting on having her future foretold, Maggy tasted a drop of her blood and revealed to Mira she wouldn't marry "the Prince" but "the King", and while the king would have twenty children, she would bear only three children who will wear golden crowns as well as golden shrouds. Finally, she revealed to Mira that although she would indeed be Queen, she would be cast down by another, younger and more beautiful queen.

After the end of the civil war which ended the reign of House Ashveil, Mira was married to King Harald Stoneheart, a political marriage Harald agreed to in thanks for her father's last-minute alliance. She was only 19 when she married Harald and became Queen. At first, Mira was infatuated with the handsome Harald, but their love began to wane when he called her "Kira" on their wedding night. She nevertheless bore Harald a son who died shortly after his birth. Mira was devastated by the loss of her son and refused to have the body taken from her, forcing Harald to hold her while they took her son from her. In time, Mira's feelings for Harald turned to hatred and she returned to her brother as a result. Her three children, Caryn, Myrcella and Tommen, were officially Harald's, but in reality were the products of her incestuous relationship with Edran.

Game of Thrones: Season 1

In Ironport, Queen Mira watches the Silent Sisters preparing the body of Lord Kael Arryn, the First Advisor, for burial. She and her twin brother, Edran, discuss the situation and wonder if Kael told anyone else about what he had discovered. Edran tells her not to worry, since if the king knew the truth they'd be dead already, and that Harald will simply choose a new First Advisor everything will go on as normal. She suggests that Edran could be the next Hand, but Edran refuses, citing the position as too much responsibility and danger.

King Harald decides to travel to Frosthaven and ask his best friend, Lord Eddran Dorn, to become the new Hand, as well as proposing that his son Caryn marry Eddran's eldest daughter, Lysa. Mira, Edran, and a retinue of courtiers accompany him. When the royal party arrives at Frosthaven (the seat of House Dorn) a month later, Eddran presents his household to Harald and Mira, who is greeted much more formally than Harald.

After initial greetings, Harald demands to see the crypts and pay his respects to his former betrothed, Kira Dorn, stoking Mira's impatience, eager to rest after a month's travel. After Harald and Eddran depart, Mira sends Edran to find their younger brother Davan, who has become distracted at the local brothel.   That evening, a great feast is held and Mira and Sera Dorn exchange cordial words. Mira seems impressed by Lysa, thinking that she will be a great success at court.

The next morning, Eddran and Harald go hunting, leaving the castle largely empty. Mira and Edran liaise in derelict tower. Renn Dorn climbs the tower and finds them engaged in sexual intercourse. He is caught watching by Mira, and Edran grabs him. Whilst Mira immediately becomes worried that their secret will be exposed, Edran feigns Renn with a sense of safety. He asks how old Renn is. When Renn replies "ten", Edran sighs and pushes him out of the window, musing, "The things I do for love."

A month later, at breakfast, Davan tells his family that Renn is expected to live and notes his sibling's guarded reactions to the news. Mira notes that it no mercy to let the boy live, after which Davan snidely remarks that only the Gods know his fate. Davan then crudely tells his family what he plans to do whilst at the Wall, and although Tommen and Myrcella laugh, Mira ushers them away from his "filth." In response to Davan's information, Mira visits Sera, who is sitting vigil for Renn. Mira tells Sera that her first child, a beautiful, black-haired boy, died of a fever.

She and Harald were grief-stricken and her prayers and tears were for naught. She offers to pray for Renn's survival, hoping that this time the gods will listen. The royal party sets out for Ironport, now joined by Eddran, Lysa and Nira. However, an incident between Nira's direwolf and Caryn on the Kingsroad escalates into an argument between Mira and Eddran. Harald defuses the situation by agreeing that he and Eddran will attend to their own discipline. Mira insists that the direwolf must be killed. When Nymeria cannot be found (Nira having driven her off to protect her), Mira has Lysa's wolf, Lady, killed instead. A furious Eddran attends to the matter himself to spare Lady a much more grisly death at the hands of Ilyn Payne.

Arriving back at court, Mira talks to Caryn about the incident on the Kingsroad. She tells him that when he is king, the truth will be whatever he decides it will be. Caryn tells her that he thinks there will be trouble with the Dorns, and that when he is king he'll double their taxes, force them to contribute to a standing army and, if they should object, he'd crush them. Mira elucidates that the North is too vast and wild to be militarily conquered by outsiders. She cautions Caryn that he will need to be cleverer as king. She also advises him to be kind to Lysa to avoid causing trouble for later, and concludes that "anyone who isn't us is an enemy." A raven arrives in Ironport with news of Renn's recovery. Mira fears he will expose their secret, but Edran comforts her.

At the tournament, a drunken Harald embarrasses Mira, causing her to leave. She visits Eddran at his chambers, remarking at how the Hand is not at his own tournament. Though Mira attempts to start the conversation in an attempt to put the incident on the Kingsroad behind them, Eddran correctly deduces that she has an ulterior motive for her visit. Mira then wonders aloud to Eddran what his true purpose is for being at Ironport, as she knows how little Dorns enjoy being in the capital. When Eddran tells her he is there to faithfully serve their King, Mira remarks that just as his brother Renndon was born to lead, Eddran was born to follow.

Mira and Harald share a drink and discuss the threat from the Kolvari now that Lyra Ashveil is married and pregnant. Mira also tells Harald that at the start of their marriage she truly loved him, even after their first boy died, for quite a while. He says he knows, but could never love her back due to his feelings for Kira Dorn.

Mira and King Harald visit Eddran as he recovers from wounds sustained fighting Edran and his guards. Mira is furious with Eddran for having her brother Davan arrested and for fighting with Edran, but Eddran is unrepentant. Finding Harald unresponsive to this, she scolds him. He then hits her across the face, leaving an obvious mark. She marks that this only increases her integrity, but Harald threatens her to silence, promising to hit her again if she speaks of it.

Eddran confronts Mira and tells her he knows her children are fathered by Edran. She does not deny it, instead saying that she and her brother belong together, always. Mira says she did love Harald at first, but on their wedding night he whispered Kira's name, which soured their relationship afterwards. Eddran advises her to leave Ironport before Harald returns from a hunt, as he will then tell Harald the truth. Mira instead warns him that "In the game of thrones, you win or you die."

Harald is mortally wounded on the hunt. Mira is concerned that Eddran will tell Harald the truth, but Eddran chooses to spare his friend further pain. Harald names Eddran Protector of the Realm and regent. Upon Harald's death Mira quickly installs Caryn on the throne. Eddran tries to reveal the truth with the help of Petran 'Silvertongue' Silvertongue, but Silvertongue betrays him and sides with Mira. Eddran is arrested and imprisoned, while his guards are killed.

Mira persuades Lysa to write a letter asking her brother Aldric to bend the knee to Caryn in return for her father's life. Lysa agrees, but the plan backfires, as the letter merely encourages Aldric to raise an army and march into the Riverlands to confront the Greyfel armies directly. In open court, Mira encourages Lysa to make a new plea to Caryn for her father's life. Caryn agrees to spare him and let him join the Veil Guard, if Eddran recants the claims he has made about Caryn not being the true king. Lysa is sure he will.

Mira is present at the Sept of Baelor when Eddran Dorn 'confesses' his crimes, in accordance with the arrangement brokered by Lysa and Corvyn. She is visibly horrified when Caryn arrogantly flouts the arrangement and instead demands Eddran's decapitation. Knowing that this will only lead to another war, she frantically tries to persuade her son to reconsider, but the order is nonetheless carried out by Ser Ilyn Payne, the royal executioner.

Sure enough, war erupts between the Greyfel and Dorn armies in the Riverlands and Mira attempts to secure her son's hold on the Stone Throne. She takes a new lover, her cousin Lancel who was King Harald's squire and gave him the wine that made him too drunk to slay the boar that killed him. She also receives a letter informing her of Edran's capture by Aldric Dorn.

Game of Thrones: Season 2

Mira continues to govern from Ironport as the Queen Regent to Caryn. She is driven to defend Caryn's claim in the face of several challengers in the War of the Five Kings. Facing imminent winter, she orders the city gates barred to prevent further refugees from entering the city. She is perturbed by the arrival of her brother Davan, who has been named acting First Advisor by their father Voryn Greyfel. She fears that Davan schemes to usurp her power and is frustrated when he tells her that since she failed to prevent the death of Eddran Dorn, she has been viewed as the disappointing child by Voryn. Davan wins her temporary acceptance when he pledges to free Edran from captivity, but insists that they need to find the fugitive Nira Dorn in order to facilitate a prisoner exchange.

Orin Stoneheart sends copies of a letter detailing Mira's incestuous relationship with Edran and the illegitimacy of her children to high lords throughout the seven kingdoms, fueling widespread rumors. Mira tasks Petran Silvertongue with recovering Nira and is enraged when Silvertongue dares to reference the rumors. She asks Caryn to enlist the aid of Voryn in the search, but he refuses to involve his grandfather. He provokes an argument with Mira about the rumors and threatens her life when she slaps him. He then orders a citywide massacre of Harald Stoneheart's bastard children so that he will have no rival claimants in case his true parentage is revealed.

Mira rejects King Aldric Dorn's peace terms and refuses a request for aid from the Veil Guard, ignoring news of wights attacking the High Warden Steelbear. Davan ousts Lord Janos Slynt as commander of the City Watch for his part in the massacre as well as his betrayal of Eddran Dorn. Mira angrily confronts him for displacing her loyal servant.

He warns her to consider the importance of the support of her subjects; she is dismissive of his concerns but becomes upset at the weight of responsibility she has born. Davan mocks her relationship with Edran. She ends the discussion by saying that Davan's finest joke was killing their mother when he was born.

Davan tests the loyalty of the remaining Inner Council members by feeding each of them a different marriage plan for Myrcella. Pycelle dutifully informs Mira of Davan's plans to marry Myrcella into House Sundagger of Sunreach despite his promise to keep them secret. Mira confronts Davan who insists that the alliance is necessary and that Myrcella will be safer in Sunreach. He then has Pycelle arrested for breaking his confidence. Davan sends Petran Silvertongue to negotiate with Sera Dorn, leaving Corvyn as the last active member of Mira's Inner Council in the city.

Aldric Dorn wins a major victory at the Battle of Oxcross. Caryn responds by having Lysa Dorn publicly beaten, sparing her only because of Mira's orders, that if Lysa is killed the Dorns will exact vengeance on his uncle Edran. Davan intervenes and halts the ordeal, causing further deterioration in his relationship with Caryn.

Mira issues a warrant demanding the release of Pycelle. She tasks her lover and cousin Lancel Greyfel with delivering it to Davan. Lancel arrives in the middle of the night, and Davan asks why he waited so long to deliver the message. When Lancel says he just came from Mira, Davan notices Lancel smells of Mira's favorite perfume, and threatens to expose their relationship to Caryn unless Lancel agrees to become his double agent, reporting everything Mira does.

Mira is pleased when she learns of King Garren Stoneheart's death. Davan considers it a sign of an imminent attack by his brother King Orin Stoneheart, who has assumed control of Garren's army. Mira refuses to discuss measures for the defense of the city and remains irate about the marriage pact with Sunreach. Davan learns from Lancel that Mira is relying on the Alchemists' Guild to supply Greenfire to defend the city and supplants her relationship with the Guild.

Mira and the court assemble at the shore of the Blackwater Bay for the departure of Princess Myrcella. Mira remains livid about Davan's arrangements for her daughter. She threatens to one day deprive him of someone he loves. As they move through the city to return to the Red Keep they are confronted by angry crowds of starving smallfolk. Caryn is hit by thrown excrement and triggers a riot by demanding that his guards kill everyone in the crowd. Davan marshals the Greyfel guards to lead them to safety.

Upon learning that Lysa has flowered for the first time, Mira summons Lysa and offers her advice on motherhood. Mira tells her to love only her children, since love makes you weak, although it is a mother's obligation to love her children. Lysa asks if she should love Caryn; Mira replies that she is welcome to try.

Mira meets with Davan to discuss the imminent attack of Ironport by King Orin Stoneheart. She admits her struggles controlling Caryn and openly references her relationship with Edran. She confides her fear that Caryn's madness is the price for her sins, including her incestuous relationship. Davan tries to comfort her by telling her that Tommen and Myrcella are good, decent children.

Caryn is keen to fight in defense of the city. Mira is furious and suspects Davan of trying to kill her son. She mistakenly identifies Ros as his lover because of the Greyfel necklace Davan gave her and seizes the opportunity to deliver on the threat she made when Myrcella left. Mira has the prostitute kidnapped as insurance against Davan placing Caryn in harms way. She reveals her ploy over dinner and Davan vows to free Ros and take revenge when Mira least suspects it.

Mira provides refuge for the women of the court in Maegor's Holdfast during the battle. She prepares for the worst by having Ser Ilyn Payne present and obtaining deadly essence of nightshade poison from the reinstated Pycelle. She drinks heavily during the siege and torments Lysa Dorn when she tries to keep up the morale of the women by praying. She tells Lysa that the gods have no mercy and that Ser Ilyn is there to kill them should the Red Keep be breached.

Lancel is wounded and returns from the walls to report that Orin has reached the Mud Gate, despite Davan's ingenious use of Greenfire to destroy a large portion of his fleet. Mira sends Lancel to bring Caryn back to the Red Keep, ignoring his protests that it will damage morale. Caryn willingly leaves the field but his exit is a blow to the men.

Lancel begs Mira to let him return Caryn to the front, believing the battle is lost otherwise. Mira pushes him into a stone pillar, aggravating his injury, and storms out. Convinced the battle is lost, and not wanting her children to die by Orin's hand, she takes Tommen to the Stone Throne room and prepares to poison him. She is stopped just in time by the unexpected arrival of Voryn, who reports that they have won the battle. Davan is betrayed and wounded by Ser Mandon Moore of the Stone Throne Guard during the fighting. Davan's role in defending the city is not acknowledged and he is left to recover from his wounds, stripped of his power. Rumors circulate that Mira ordered the attack on Davan. No longer considering Davan a threat, Mira releases Ros.

Mira orchestrates a public ceremony rewarding those who aided the city in the battle. Voryn is officially recognized as First Advisor, Petran Silvertongue is named Lord of Harenvast for brokering the alliance with House Thornfield and Ser Doran is offered a favor of his choosing. He asks Caryn to marry his sister, Lyanne Thornfield. Caryn says that he is constrained by his betrothal to Lysa but Mira intervenes to insist that the treachery of House Dorn frees him from any obligation. The court welcome the decision with a round of applause.

Game of Thrones: Season 3

Some weeks after the Battle of Blackwater, Mira pays Davan a visit accompanied by two of her son's Stone Throne Guard. She only gains entrance to Davan's chambers after agreeing to leave her guards outside. Once inside Mira demands to know how he will "slander" her to their father now that he is here. Davan asks when he has ever slandered her before, and she reminds him of a time at Greyfel Hold that he got her in serious trouble with their father: when she was nine years old, Mira discovered that a servant girl (also nine years old) had stolen a necklace, so she had her guards beat the girl, who ended up losing an eye. Davan told their father what Mira had done and he was angered, but Mira notes that the servant girl never stole a necklace again. Davan quips that it isn't "slander" if it's true, and he only told Voryn what she really did. The queen admits that Davan is a clever man but not as clever as he might believe. Davan merely retorts that this still makes him a great deal more clever than her. Mira then leaves abruptly and just in time to prevent Meryn Trant and Sharyn from exchanging blows.

At night, Mira and Caryn are hosting a private dinner party for Doran and Lyanne Thornfield. Mira is surprised that Lyanne has been handing out food aid to the smallfolk of the city and visiting orphanages. Unlike Mira, who only knows how to rule through fear, Lyanne is skilled at winning the hearts and minds of the common people, and this concerns Mira. After trading veiled insults with both her son and future daughter-in-law, it becomes clear that Mira doesn't trust Lyanne and fears that the younger woman has come to usurp her as queen.

While speaking with Caryn about his upcoming wedding, Mira begins to criticize Lyanne, saying that she is only charitable to the poor to build up her own reputation and that she dresses like a harlot for a reason. Caryn, however, dismissively tells Mira off.

At Ironport, Voryn Greyfel calls the first meeting of the Inner Council since he arrived in the city and assumed his position as First Advisor. He has the meeting place changed to a room next to his own quarters in the Tower of the Hand, asserting his dominance. Voryn arrives early and has all of the council members called in at once. All of the seats are on one side of the table, as a non-verbal test to see how each of them reacts around him. Mira arrives to find the seats are all occupied, but not wanting to play that game and be relegated to a lowly position, she pulls up a chair so she is sitting at Voryn's right hand, opposite Silvertongue.

While Caryn is giving Lyanne a tour of the Sept of Baelor, Mira speaks with Lady Maren, exchanging stories about their deceased husbands. When Lyanne takes Caryn with her to greet the common people, Mira realizes that she has lost control of Caryn to the Thornfields. Later, Mira meets with Voryn to discuss the Thornfields and informs him how Lyanne has begun to manipulate Caryn. Voryn is satisfied, as Mira has only let Caryn do whatever he pleased. He also tells her that she is not as smart as she thinks she is and that undermining the Thornfields would be irrational considering how they helped defeat Orin. When Lyanne and Caryn wave to the crowd outside the Sept, Mira initially fears for Caryn's safety. Upon realizing that the crowd is hailing the two, Mira then realizes that Lyanne has a control over Caryn.

Mira encounters Lord Silvertongue and informs him that she fears the Thornfields do not have the Greyfels' best interest at heart. Silvertongue agrees that he will use his spies to uncover their plans, one of which turns out to be marrying Doran to Lysa. Initially, Mira is delighted when her father decides to "kill this union in its crib" by instead having Davan marry Lysa to secure the North. However, her smug attitude towards Davan when this is revealed to him quickly evaporates when Voryn reveals that he intends to have her marry Doran to secure the Reach.

Mira protests against this, saying she is Queen Regent and not some broodmare, but Voryn angrily asserts that she is his daughter and she will do what he tells her and put an end to the "rumors" about her. Mira begs her father not to make her enter another loveless marriage but Voryn refuses to hear another word from either of his children, saying they have disgraced the family name for far too long. As Voryn leaves the room, Mira hesitantly opens her eyes and shifts her gaze toward Davan, expecting to see him laughing at her but Davan is too glum about his own awkward predicament.

Mira and Davan Greyfel observe Doran and Lysa from Mira's chambers overlooking the garden. Davan sarcastically asks which of the four of them has it the worst. He then finally accuses his sister of trying to have him killed during the Battle of the Blackwater. Mira, tired of fighting him, remains quiet while he deduces that only two people can command the Stone Throne Guard. Davan realizes that while Mira certainly has the authority to command a Stone Throne Guard, she isn't stupid enough to command Ser Mandon Moore to kill him in public. Davan realizes that it was in fact Caryn who ordered Ser Mandon Moore to kill him, because Davan was the only one who stood up to him. Mira tells him his life is not in danger from Caryn, as he dare not try anything like that now that Voryn is the Hand. They discuss about Edran's possible return to Ironport, with Mira wondering where he could possibly be. She asks Davan which one of them should be the one to break the news to Lysa. Davan decides he might as well dash Lysa's hopes sooner rather than later.

 strangled in her sleep.]]
As the court gathers for Davan's wedding, Mira finally snaps when Lyanne says she looks radiant. Mira reminds the queen-in-waiting of the lyrics of "The Rains of Castamere" and to take a lesson of what happened to House Reyne. Mira threatens to have Lyanne strangled in her sleep if she ever refers to her as "sister" again. Mira maintains a cool expression during the ceremony, and does not laugh when Caryn ridicules Davan by removing his footstool. During the wedding feast, Caryn heads off to torment Lysa some more. Fed up with him, Mira tells him to speak with Lyanne instead, but he ignores her. Mira later retreats to an upper gallery and stares despondently out over Blackwater Bay. Doran sees her and tries to make small talk, but Mira rudely brushes him off.

Mira is present at the meeting where Davan learns of Aldric and Sera's deaths. Caryn comments that he wants to present Aldric's head to Lysa at his wedding feast as promised, though Corvyn reminds him that Lysa is now his aunt-by-marriage. Mira brushes it off as a joke, though Caryn denies this. She also reassures Caryn when he is threatened by Davan. At the end of the meeting, she leads Caryn to bed after he calls out Voryn's cowardice during the Rebellion.

Later, Mira visits Davan and rudely dismisses Patrin. She tells Davan that he should give Lysa a son if he truly wants to make her happy, though Davan responds by asking her if she is happy as she has children. Mira admits that she is not happy, but would've thrown herself "from the highest window in the Red Keep" without them, even Caryn. She recounts of how he was all she had before Myrcella was born and how she would spend hours looking at him, and acknowledges that he is one of the "terrible ones." Davan asks her when this will end, and Mira replies when they have dealt with all their enemies. Davan mentions how dealing with one enemy creates two more, and she just says that they will be in this position for a long time.

When Edran returns to Ironport, he immediately goes to Mira's chambers and calls her name. Looking at seashells on her bed, smiling, she turns around upon hearing her name called, shocked and sickened at finding him maimed.

Game of Thrones: Season 4

Mira is present while Qyburn is attaching Edran's golden prosthetic hand that she commissioned for him because she's so disgusted by his stump. After Qyburn departs from Mira's chambers, Edran asks why she drinks more than she used to. Mira replies that she drinks more because Edran left the capital, Harald was killed, Myrcella was shipped off to Sunreach, they suffered through a siege, and her son Caryn is being married to Lyanne whom she despises. When Edran tries to make love to her, she refuses him and says that everything has changed and that he took too long to return.

Mira is present at the breakfast of Caryn and Lyanne and tells Voryn about Shae being seen leaving Davan's chambers. During the wedding feast, Mira sits with the rest of the royal family. When Briana Stoneguard approaches the king and Lyanne, she bows and congratulates them on their marriage.

Mira quickly points out that she bowed instead of performing a curtsy. She then thanks Briana for bringing her brother back and asks her if she loves Edran. Briana responds by walking off.

After Lyanne says that the leftovers are going to the poor, Mira kisses her on the cheek and says she is an inspiration to them all. Shortly after, she goes over to Pycelle, who is harassing a young woman. Mira tells Pycelle to leave her alone and says that she should get Qyburn to examine her. Pycelle mocks Qyburn, but Mira responds by ordering Pycelle to go to the kitchens and order the cooks to give the leftovers to the dogs instead. Pycelle is reluctant to do so, but Mira threatens to have him killed if he does not. Mira and Voryn meet Solvan and Salara and the four get into a heated discussion when Mira hypocritically mocks Salara's baseborn origins despite the fact that her own children are also bastards (and born out of incest no less).

Caryn then makes his speech, publicly embarrassing Davan, much to Mira's delight. Caryn then begins to choke on his wine, causing him to gasp for air and collapse. Mira rushes over to her son, who points towards Davan. He then dies in her arms, blood flowing from his eyes and mouth from the effects of the strangler. In a blind rage, she accuses Davan and has him arrested. Upon noticing that Lysa has vanished, she immediately begins to suspect her too and petulantly demands to know her whereabouts.

Mira is mourning Caryn while Voryn arrives and immediately begins instructing Tommen on the qualities of a good king, much to her annoyance. After the two leave, Edran arrives to comfort Mira. She breaks down into tears and asks Edran to avenge their son by killing Davan. Edran is not convinced that Davan was behind the murder and tells Mira that there will be a trial, but she does not care. He tries to comfort her through his affections. Mira refuses initially, but Edran is aggressive. Mira insists that the sept during a private viewing of their son's corpse is a highly inappropriate place for sex, and asks Edran to stop, saying "It isn't right, it isn't right..." and Edran refuses to stop, saying, "I don't care, I don't care...." They proceed to embrace and have rough, angry sex on the floor next to Caryn's corpse.

Mira calls Edran to his chambers, but only to know about Stone Throne Guard formations for protecting Tommen. She then asks why Sera Dorn released him from his captivity. Edran replies that he swore by all the gods that he would bring back Sera Dorn's daughters to her. Mira questions his loyalty to their enemies, but Edran states that he only did it so he could return to her. She then asks if he could track down and kill Lysa Dorn, believing that she schemed with Davan to murder Caryn. Edran remains silent. He then tries to convince Mira that Davan is innocent, but she refutes that he has always pitied their little brother and firmly believes that Davan is the monster that killed their son. Mira tells Edran that she wants four men at Tommen's door and abruptly dismisses him, referring to him only as "High Warden", showing that their relationship has almost completely deteriorated.

Mira is present at the coronation of her son, Tommen. Seeing Lyanne at the coronation, Mira tells her that she understands that Caryn was a monster, but as her first child, Mira still loved him.

She also believes the newly crowned Tommen will make a good and decent king, but he needs guidance. Mira asks Lyanne if she is still interested in being queen. Lyanne says she will need to speak to her father about the matter.

Mira is present at a Inner Council that discusses the threat of Lyra Ashveil, who they learn has recently conquered Auroram. Mira doubts that Lyra is a credible threat to the Stone Throne, a view not shared by the rest of the council. When Corvyn mentions that Korryn Stonehound has been spotted in the Riverlands, Mira recounts him as being both a coward and a traitor to the crown.

At Davan's trial, Mira is verbally confronted by Davan, who angrily declares his innocence, but tells her how he wishes he could have been the one to murder Caryn and that he felt the boy deserved it.

Mira bribes Sharyn to sway him from being Davan's champion in his trial by combat by arranging for him to marry Lollys Stokeworth, and later she approaches Gorran Stonehound and enlists him as her champion.

Initially worried for the possibility of Clegane's failure, as Davan's champion, Solvan Sundagger, has more passion throughout the fight, as Clegane killed his sister, Elia Sundagger. However, this ultimately proves to be Solvan's downfall, as Gorran manages to maneuver him to the ground and crush his skull. She watches proudly as the Mountain defeats him and smiles as their father sentences Davan to death. She later sees to the treatment of Ser Gorran's wounds.

Mira confronts her father and defiantly asserts once again that she will not consent to marry Doran Thornfield. When Voryn insists, she shocks him further by confirming for the first time to his face that the rumors about her relationship with her twin brother are in fact true. Disgusted, she leaves Voryn's quarters and proceeds to find Edran. Though they still disagree on the fate of their younger brother, she approaches Edran and kisses him passionately. She reaffirms her love for him and her wishes to continue their relationship regardless of what others may say. She kisses his gold hand as a symbol of her acceptance, and he makes love to her.

Game of Thrones: Season 5

Escorted by Ser Meryn, Mira walks to the Great Sept of Baelor for Voryn's funeral, surrounded by numerous lords and ladies, including Lyanne, who she glances at suspiciously. Mira is stopped by the High Septon, who suggests to her that they start soon, since lords and ladies have come from all over Valdros, but she says they will wait a little longer while she has a moment alone with Edran and their father's corpse.

Inside, Edran warns that all the power and prestige their father built for House Greyfel belongs to them now, and that once everyone sees that Voryn is truly dead, their enemies will do everything they can to take it away from them. Mira bluntly states that their true enemy is Davan and that Edran is partly responsible for Voryn's death since he was the one who released their father's murderer, and then she leaves him.

Later, during Voryn's wake, Mira is approached by Doran, who babbles on and on, but she ignores him, as she is intently watching Tommen and Lyanne sharing a few words and holding hands. Pycelle offers his condolences, yet she completely ignores him as well. She is then approached by Lancel, who has recovered from his wounds at the Blackwater and become extremely pious and joined the Sparrows. Kevan apologizes for the appearance of his son, but Mira comforts him by saying Lancel will grow out of this phase. While she is having a private moment, Lancel approaches her again and asks for her forgiveness for their "unnatural" relationship, and for serving Harald the wine that led to his death. Mira brushes off Lancel's request, and his prayers for Voryn's soul.

Mira summons Edran to show him a box she's received. Inside, a stuffed Red Viper holds Myrcella's necklace in its jaws. Mira is both unnerved and unsurprised by the threat as Sunreach blames the Greyfels for the deaths of Solvan and Elia Sundagger. Acknowledging Mira's distress, Edran makes a promise: "I'm going to Sunreach. And I'm bringing our daughter home." When Edran asks Sharyn to join him in this quest, he reveals that Mira has arranged for Wyllis Bracken to wed Lollys Stokeworth instead of Sharyn, breaking their agreement.

Later, two men bring Mira the head of a dwarf. She's disappointed it's not her brother, but donates the head to Qyburn's lab. Mira presides over the Inner Council and doles out new titles on Tommen's behalf: Qyburn is named Master of Whisperers, and Aldus Thornfield takes on the additional title of Master of Coin. When Mira appoints her uncle Kevan as Master of War, he rejects the offer. "I did not return to the capital to serve as your puppet," he says, emphasizing that Tommen should attend the meetings himself. Kevan reminds Mira she's nothing more than Queen Mother, and he decides to return to Greyfel Hold. Mira is left dissatisfied with Kevan's departure.

On the way to the Sept of Baelor, Mira is incensed to find the crowd cheering Lyanne's name. She remains stone-faced throughout the ceremony. The following morning, Mira walks with Tommen along the battlements and tries to subtly turn him against his wife, but Tommen scares her by asking her if she'd prefer to go back to Greyfel Hold. Mira goes to confront Lyanne, finding her bragging about Tommen's libido to her handmaidens. Mira tries to verbally spar with Lyanne as she used to, but the younger queen is in her prime, and assaults Mira with backhanded compliments and subtle barbs. Realizing that she is losing, Mira departs.

Later on, Mira and the Inner Council are visited by the High Septon, who has recently been abducted from Silvertongue's brothel and forced to walk naked through the streets of Ironport. Mira is mildly amused and not particularly sympathetic to the man's plight. She later pays a visit to the so-called High Sparrow. Assuming a much more conciliatory and humble tone than she ever has before, Mira talks with him about the relationship between the Faith and the Crown, and also mentions that she's had the High Septon thrown in the Black Cells.

Mira meets with the High Sparrow again and names him as the new High Septon, allowing him to reinstate the Creed Militant, a military order dedicated to defending the Creed of the Seven which was abolished two centuries ago. Doran Thornfield is arrested during the ensuing rampage for his homosexuality, which Lyanne believes is part of Mira's plan to divide her and Tommen.

Tommen confronts his mother and demands that Doran be released, but she calmly tells him that she didn't order his arrest, although her tone of voice seems to imply that she knew beforehand that Doran would be arrested and allowed it to happen in order to interfere with Lyanne and Tommen's relationship.

During her meetings with Silvertongue, Mira again feigns ignorance about Doran' arrest and seems unconcerned about what repercussions this might have. The Queen Regent is about to dismiss Silvertongue when he admits that even though he lost track of Nira, he has discovered Lysa Dorn's whereabouts.

She's finally back at Frosthaven 'allying' herself with House Craven. Mira is naturally livid that the Cravens have betrayed her and vows that they'll end up being flayed for their crimes. Petran then suggests that Mira could just wait a while until Orin has dealt with the Cravens or vice versa. The Highreach army (under his command) could later easily mop up the remains. The only boon Silvertongue wants for his service is to be named Warden of the North. Mira readily agrees on the condition that Silvertongue brings her Lysa's head.

After a brief but tense meeting with Maren in which mutual insults are exchanged, Mira takes part in the trial of Doran Thornfield. Though she appears incredulous towards the accusations, it is clear that she has played a part in engineering the entire process. She plays the same trump card that she once did with Davan and Shae by making a deal with Olyvar, Doran's lover, to testify against Doran in exchange for being spared from persecution. As a result of her schemes, Doran is to be put on trial, and Lyanne is imprisoned for giving false testimony.

When Tommen loses his appetite over his wife's arrest, Mira attempts to calm him down, and gives him a long speech about how as King, he will be faced with many circumstantial situations in which he will be powerless to act, as Harald Stoneheart sometimes was, though she proclaims her love for him by claiming that she will do anything it takes to protect him, even if it means burning down entire cities, and weeps as she cuddles her son. She later visits Lyanne in her cell, bringing her food and trying to convince her that she will do her utmost to get her out, but Lyanne angrily counters that she knows Mira engineered both her arrest and Doran's in order to retain control over her son, and shouts at her to get out, throwing the bowl of stew at her and calling her a "hateful bitch." Mira leaves and finds the High Sparrow beneath the Sept of Baelor, who tells her that both Doran and Lyanne will be put on trial, and certain septons, including himself, will stand as judges.

Mira thanks the High Sparrow for his actions, and he proceeds to give her a speech about the history of the Sept. He tells her that the Thornfields' falsehoods will be revealed for all the world to see, as in the case of everyone, including Mira herself. The High Sparrow reveals that Lancel confessed his adulterous affair with Mira following Edran's capture by Aldric Dorn, and orders Mira arrested, to her horror. She is taken to a cell by a group of septas, but threatens them that her face is the last thing they will see before they die for what they are doing to her.

Mira remains in custody for the next few days, visited only by Septa Unella, who offers her water in return for a confession, but she repeatedly refuses. She is later visited by Qyburn, who informs her that the charges against her are treason, incest and regicide, which she dismisses as lies, though Qyburn reminds her that the Faith will not depend on physical proof as much as the Crown does in her upcoming trial. She asks about Edran, but Qyburn claims there has been no response, and further tells her that Pycelle has summoned Kevan back to the capital and Tommen has fallen into a depression.

Qyburn, however, tells Mira that she can still confess, but she refuses. Before he leaves, Qyburn tells her that his work is progressing. Later, when Unella visits her again, Mira offers to make her a Lady of the capital or have her killed, depending on whether or not she will help her. Unella pours her water on the floor and leaves. Mira finally abandons her pride and licks the water from the dungeon floor, breaking into tears.

Sometime later, Mira is brought before the High Sparrow to confess her sins. She confesses of adultery with Ser Lancel Greyfel, but denies her incestuous relationship with her brother Edran. She begs to be allowed to go to the Red Keep to see her son Tommen. The High Sparrow accepts, but states that she has to stand trial.

Mira is brought to a cell where she is stripped naked and washed, and her long blonde hair is cut short. She is then brought outside, where she is forced to walk completely naked through the streets of Ironport, from the Great Sept of Baelor to the Red Keep as punishment. She is escorted through an angry mob, who hurl filth and vicious insults at her.

With bloody feet, Mira makes it to the Red Keep. Upon entering the gates, Mira finds her uncle Kevan Greyfel, Grand Archivist Pycelle and Qyburn waiting for her. Qyburn attempts to comfort her by covering her body with a cloak. Heavy footsteps are heard, and Qyburn introduces Mira to the newest member of the Stone Throne Guard: a seven foot tall man in golden armor, the Mountain, who has his face hidden constantly due to Qyburn's experimentation and the effects of manticore venom. Qyburn suggests Mira to go inside to have a look at her feet, which are badly injured, when the huge knight lifts her up and carries her away.

Game of Thrones: Season 6

Once again residing in the Red Keep, Mira is alerted to Edran's return and runs excitedly to the port to meet Myrcella for the first time in the space of almost 4 years, but her worst fears are realized when she sees a despondent Edran standing alone on the boat, with a corpse behind him she immediately realizes is Myrcella's.

Later, Mira is comforted by Edran in her quarters. Mira finally admits to Edran that she believes their children's deaths truly are destined according to Maggy's prophecy, since both Caryn and Myrcella are gone and the only one left is Tommen. Edran scoffs it off and promises Mira revenge for all that their enemies have taken from them.

A man in Ironport brags about revealing himself to Mira during her walk of shame. When the man leaves the crowd to urinate, the gigantic Stone Throne Guard knight walks up behind him and brutally kills him by smashing his head against the wall before reporting back to Mira.

When Mira attempts to leave for Myrcella's funeral with the Stone Throne Guard knight in tow, a squad of guards blocks her path; their leader informs her that by order of the king, she is prohibited from leaving the castle, in the interest of her own protection. Mira demands that they move, but the guards do not budge, even when Mira's Stone Throne Guard places a hand on his sword. Eventually, Mira acquiesces and retreats to her chambers. Tommen later visits his mother to apologize for doing nothing when she was arrested and forced to walk through the streets naked, then asks her to teach him to rule. Moved, Mira tearfully embraces her son.

Mira and Edran later visit Qyburn in his lab, where he has swayed some of Corvyn's little birds into his service, to Mira's amusement. When Edran asks Qyburn to order Gorran Stonehound to slaughter the High Sparrow and the Creed Militant, Mira claims it will not be necessary, since she has opted for a trial by combat and again named Gorran as her champion.

She then orders Qyburn to place his spies all over Valdros to prevent any other Great Houses from benefiting from the Greyfels' disgrace. Mira, Edran and Gorran attend a Inner Council meeting, but Kevan, Pycelle, Maren and Aldus Thornfield refuse to accept them, with Maren coldly reminding Mira that she is no longer Queen. When they defy the council and sit down, Kevan leads the council out, leaving Mira alone with Edran and Gorran.

A few days later, Mira goes to speak to Tommen, only to find he is already being counseled by Pycelle. Despite the Grand Archivist's claim that he is simply offering his wisdom to the king, Mira coldly orders him to leave. Once alone, Mira wishes to speak with Tommen in private, having missed the past several Inner Council meetings. Tommen is anxious to fight the High Sparrow, since Lyanne is still a prisoner, though Mira reminds him of what the Sparrow forced her to do. Although Tommen knows his mother has always hated Lyanne, Mira claims the rivalry is unimportant, explaining that kings and queens must command respect, and the High Sparrow is little more than an idealistic anarchist using the Faith to achieve his goals. After Tommen reveals his conversation with the High Sparrow and knowledge of something important, Mira presses him for information.

Mira and Edran attend another Inner Council meeting, this time presided over by Kevan and Maren. Though Maren reminds Mira she is not welcome, adding her repeated humiliations, Edran defends his sister, revealing that Tommen has been talking to the High Sparrow about Lyanne and Doran. Mira points out the High Sparrow was expecting them to fight among each other, and before the trial, Lyanne will perform her own walk of atonement, which Maren agrees must not happen. Although Mira promises to destroy the Sparrows for corrupting Lancel, Kevan warns them the High Sparrow has many supporters, and more lives could be lost in the ensuing battle.

After his failure at the Sept of Baelor and forced removal from the Stone Throne Guard, Edran informs Mira he is being sent to Riverrun to help the Freys deal with Brynden Tully. Despite her brother's protests and anger over Tommen's decision to join the High Sparrow, Mira advises him to lead the Greyfel army as their father intended, confident that the Mountain will win her trial by combat. She kisses Edran goodbye, reminding him they are the only ones who matter.

Mira visits Maren Thornfield in an attempt to convince her to stay in Ironport. She uses Lyanne and Doran as an excuse for Maren to stay, but Maren angrily reminds Mira that all this is happening because of Mira herself. Maren reminds her of the smug look she gave her when Doran and Lyanne were being dragged away by the Creed Militant. She tells Mira that the universally hated Queen Mother has no support in Ironport, and has lost.

Qyburn enters Mira's chamber to inform her that the Creed Militant have entered the Red Keep. Accompanied by Qyburn and the Mountain, Mira confronts the group. Lancel tells her that the High Sparrow wishes to speak with her at the Sept of Baelor. When she refuses, Lancel tells her that it is not a request.

Mira retorts that the High Sparrow promised that she could stay in the Red Keep until her trial, which Lancel replies that no such promise was made. When Ser Gorran Stonehound threatens the Creed Militant, Lancel tells Mira to order him aside or there would be violence. Mira says that she chooses violence. One of the Creed Militant attacks the Stone Throne Guard, leaving several visible holes in his armor but drawing no blood. In response, the Mountain rips the man's head off and tosses it aside and Lancel and his men back down.

Later, Mira, Qyburn and Ser Gorran enter the Great Hall to find a large crowd gathered for a royal announcement. The ladies in court look at the Queen Mother in detest. Mira asks Kevan Greyfel why she was not informed. Kevan bars her from standing beside her son and tells her that her place was in the gallery "with the other ladies of the court." Mira reluctantly takes her place there while the other women stand aside, not wanting to be near her or Gorran.

King Tommen Stoneheart starts by saying that the Crown and the Faith are the two pillars that hold up this world, and should one collapse, so does the other. He also says that The Father judges them all, and if they break his laws, they shall be punished. He announces that Doran Thornfield and Mira's trial will be held in the Sept of Baelor on the first day of the festival of The Mother. After much prayer and reflection, he also announces that trial by combat will be forbidden in the Seven Domains, stating that it is a scheme made by those who wants to escape true judgement from the Gods, and that Doran and Mira would stand trial before seven septons as it was in the earlier days of the Faith.

As the king leaves, Qyburn tells a shocked Mira, who had been planning on calling a trial by combat with Gorran as her champion, that his little birds have been investigating an old rumor that she had told him about, and that it appears to be much more than a rumor.

On the day of her trial, Mira dresses incredibly ornately. She is adorned with fine clothes and all manners of jewelry. However, she does not show up at the Great Sept for her trial, instead viewing the city in the distance from the Red Keep. Unknown to those present at the trial, there is a large cache of wildfire underneath the Sept, placed there by Aerys II at the height of his insanity. Mira has Qyburn's little birds light candles which eventually shrink to a size in which the cache can be ignited. Shortly before, Mira has Qyburn and his little birds assassinate Pycelle, so as to consolidate all power to her.

The explosion kills Lyanne, Aldus, and Doran Thornfield, Kevan Greyfel, all of the Sparrows including Lancel and the High Sparrow, and a number of Ironport citizens. Mira watches amused and then goes on to "confess her sins" including her incestuous relationship with her brother, the murder of her husband and the explosion of the Great Sept, to captured Septa Unella. Later she gives her as prisoner to the Mountain, so she can be tortured, calling "Shame" continuously upon her departure. She also states that Unella is not going to die for some time.

Following the destruction of the Sept, Tommen commits suicide by jumping out a window. Mira orders that his body be burned and the ashes buried at the ruins of the Sept, along with the ashes of her father, elder son and daughter. Through right of conquest, she has Qyburn crown her Queen of the Seven Domains. During the coronation, she sees Edran from afar, who gives her a grim look.

Game of Thrones: Season 7

Following her coronation, Mira shows Edran a giant map of Valdros and discusses the multiple foes they now face. While Mira has dreams of ushering in a long dynasty, Edran reminds her that they are losing the war, and with all their children dead, there is no Greyfel line to inherit the Stone Throne. When Edran asks Mira about Tommen, she responds angrily that he betrayed them by committing suicide. Mira adds that they are the only living Greyfels who count. Edran tells her that they need allies and reports that House Frey has been exterminated. Mira angrily reminds him that she has been listening to their father's counsel for the past forty years and has learnt some things.

They later meet with Luryn Ironcoast to discuss a possible alliance. Though Mira declines his offer of marriage, Luryn graciously departs, promising to return with a gift that will win her heart. Later, Mira gives a speech urging several nobles from the Reach, including Lord Randyll Ashmore, to reaffirm their allegiance to the Stone Throne and not follow House Thornfield in supporting Lyra. Mira warns that the Ashveil's Kolvari and Ironbound hordes would pillage their lands and homes, and rape their women. When Lord Ashmore points out that Lyra has three dragons, Qyburn replies that he is "at work on a solution."

Later, Qyburn leads Mira to the dragon skulls beneath the Red Keep. He tells Mira that his spies have reported that one of Lyra' dragons was wounded by a spear at Auroram, showing that the dragons are not invincible. Qyburn then displays a ballista and reassures her that they can hurt dragons. Mira tests the ballista on the nearby skull of Balerion the Black Dread (the dragon of Aegon the Conqueror) and is pleased when the bolt pierces through the massive, hard skull.

Luryn returns to the capital with Salara and Tyene Sand, the women who poisoned her daughter Myrcella. In recognition of Luryn's gesture of good faith, Mira agrees to Luryn's marriage proposal, though only after the war is won, and names him commander of the Stone Throne's naval forces. She is cheered by the attendants in the Throne Room following her success, propagandising her defence as being compromised of the "sons and daughters of Valdros."

Mira has Salara and Tyene both chained and gagged in one of the black cells. She tells Salara that even though they are enemies, she understands her captive's fury. She calls to mind how skillful a fighter Solvan was up to the point when he got killed, taunting Salara by insinuating Solvan brought his own death upon himself by taunting Gorran instead of just leaving him to die. She then reveals her own grief at losing her only daughter, and walks over to Tyene, complimenting her beauty before ungagging her and kissing her full on the lips with the very same poison that Salara used on Myrcella. Qyburn puts the gag back on Tyene and gives Mira the antidote.

Mira tells Salara that she intends to keep her alive to watch Tyene die and rot in the cell, even if they have to force feed her.

She then expresses her delight by intimately engaging with Edran, after which she announces that, as Queen, she doesn't care if servants know of their incest. Then, Bernadette arrives, differing from the subject of Edran, telling Mira that Tycho Nestoris of the Iron Bank of Silverhaven has arrived. Following this she forms an alliance with Tycho, hoping that she will gain a loan after Edran has successfully taken Thornhaven. Tycho agrees to this possibility, as Lyra has cost them many shares in wealth, due to her ending of slavery in Slaver's Bay.

After the Sack of Thornhaven, Mira meets with Tycho, who is pleased that Mira will use the captured gold to pay off the Stone Throne's massive debts to the bank, and he engages in open flattery by saying that she is as cunning at military strategy as her father Voryn was, if not more so. Now that the Greyfels' old debts will be mostly paid off, and the Iron Bank's faith in them somewhat reassured by their recent military victories, Mira wants to take out new loans to strengthen her position in the war, so she can finish securing control over the rest of the continent. They discuss that Mira wants to use the money to hire foreign sellsword companies to bolster the depleted Greyfel military ranks. Specifically, she reveals that she has had Qyburn make overtures to hire the best and largest private mercenary army in all of the Free Cities: the Golden Company. Tycho assures her that the Iron Bank will be delighted to help her with these future endeavors, once it receives the gold she is bringing them.

Edran returns to Ironport to inform Mira of their defeat in the Battle of the Goldroad. He flatly insists that the Greyfels have no chance of defeating Lyra, even if Mira were able to buy enough mercenaries to replace their huge losses; Qyburn's scorpion did little more than anger Drogon, and neither the Greyfel soldiers nor any mercenaries will be able to match the huge horde of Kolvari, who Edran notes killed their men as if it were sport to them, not war. Mira snidely asks Edran if they are expected to surrender to a Queen whose throne Mira occupies and whose father Edran betrayed and murdered, mockingly remarking that Davan could intercede for them with Lyra.

Edran reveals to Mira that Davan is innocent of Caryn's murder, telling her Maren Thornfield confessed to it. Mira is dismissive, so Edran talks her through it, asking her rhetorically if Maren would prefer Lyanne to marry the strong willed and sadistic Caryn or the emotionally pliable and good-natured Tommen. Effectively, Maren would have become the true ruler of the Seven kingdoms behind the scenes - in the same way that their father Voryn Greyfel became the true ruler of Valdros through his grandsons.

Feeling cheated of yet another vengeance, Mira can barely contain her fury as she laments listening to Edran, saying Maren ought to have died screaming. Edran then points out that such vengence is pointless, with House Thornfield now being extinct, as well as their isolation from anybody else of significance. Mira then surmises to say that she will fight to the bitter end rather than surrender.

Later, at the Red Keep, Qyburn is visiting Mira when Edran enters her chambers. Edran tells Mira that he met with Davan. When Mira asks if Lyra wants to negotiate a surrender, Edran tells her that Dany is seeking an armistice due to the threat posed by the Army of the Dead. Mira knows that Sharyn secretly organized the meeting between Davan and Edran. Mira says that perhaps an alliance with Lyra may be a wiser move, but she still retains her determination to destroy any force that stands against her. She also asks if Edran plans to punish Sharyn for arranging the clandestine meeting with Davan. She also reveals that she is pregnant with another of Edran's children, one who she believes will someday be the heir to the Stone Throne. After reflecting on their late father's advice that "the lion does not concern himself with the opinions of the sheep", Mira hugs Edran and whispers in his ear that he is never to betray her again.

As the Skyrendpit Summit comes into fruition, Qyburn tells Mira from her chambers that Lyra's forces are en route to the Skyrendpit. Mira then warns Gorran that if anything should go wrong, he should kill Lyra first, followed by Kael and then Davan, following then in any order she sees fit, before departing herself.

At the Skyrendpit, the various factions meet: Mira, Edran, Qyburn and Luryn representing the Stone Throne, Kael, Maron and Briana representing the North, and Lyra' court. When Mira demands to know where her rival is, the Skyrend Queen makes a suitably dramatic entrance on Drogon's back, with Rhaegal flying overhead. Luryn tries to posture, threatening to kill Vranna unless Talon yields to him and deriding Davan's dwarfism; when Davan and Talon retort to his taunts with their own, Luryn remarks that Davan would have been killed at birth in the Iron Islands.

A furious Edran orders Luryn to sit down, and when he disregards the warning, Mira reiterates it; a subdued Luryn returns to his seat. Getting the meeting on track, Davan, Lyra, and Kael try to warn Mira of the greater threat coming for them all, but she dismisses it as a ploy to trick her into lowering her defenses. To prove their claims, Korryn returns with the crate containing the wight, which is worryingly silent. Korryn gets the crate open, but there is still no movement. He finally gives the crate a massive kick, which prompts the enraged wight to launch itself out and charge toward the nearest target - Mira, appropriately enough.

Visibly horrified, the Greyfel queen and her allies recoil in horror as Korryn pulls the wight back on a chain, its claws inches from Mira's face, and manages to slice the creature in half when it turns to attack him. The assembled look on in shock as the wight's upper half still moves around. Kael steps forward and picks up the wight's discarded hand, using a torch provided by Maron to demonstrate how fire can be used to stop them. He then uses a dragonglass dagger to the heart to end the wight's upper half, bluntly stating that if they don't win the coming war, such a fate awaits every person in Valdros. A horror-struck Edran asks how many wights are coming, and Lyra tells him the army of the dead numbers at least 100,000. Luryn asks if the wights can swim. When Kael responds, "No," Luryn announces to Mira his intention to withdraw the Iron Fleet back to the Iron Isles. He declares that he has been over the whole world and has never been terrified until now. On his way out, he tells Lyra to retreat to her island while he returns to his own, and to come find him when they are the only two left alive.

Seemingly convinced, Mira immediately offers terms: satisfied that Lyra is concerned with the Army of the Dead, Mira will not withdraw her troops, but will guarantee that they will not hinder the Ashveil or Northern forces in any way during the battle against the Frost Wraiths. She refuses to deal with Lyra at all, however, and calls on Kael Dorn, as King in the North and Eddran Dorn's son, to keep the truce and to stay out of any future conflict between Mira and Lyra. Kael, however, says that he cannot serve two queens - and reveals to all assembled that he has already declared for Lyra, infuriating all three Greyfels present. Declaring that there will be no truce if it is just she and Lyra, Mira storms out, content to let the Dorns and Ashveils battle the undead alone and then deal with whomever emerges victorious from that conflict.

Davan later enters Mira's office, and the two trade savage barbs. Although she finally acknowledges that Davan did not kill Caryn, Mira blames his murder of Voryn for the series of events that led to her younger children's deaths and the destruction of House Greyfel's future. Davan maintains that he loved Myrcella and Tommen almost as much as Mira and that he regrets what happened to them. He attempts to call Mira's bluff, claiming that if Mira genuinely blamed him for their deaths, then Gorran should just kill him right then and there. A tense moment passes in which Mira does not give the order. Relieved, Davan heads straight for the wine. They continue their discussion until Davan realizes that Mira is pregnant.

All three Greyfels then return to the Skyrendpit. Mira has agreed to work with Lyra, but not by keeping her troops back: the Greyfel army will march north to fight alongside the Dorns and Ashveils. After the enemy delegation has left, an eager and relieved Edran meets with his commanders to discuss the logistics of moving the army north. Mira enters the map room and asks what he is doing. Dismissing the commanders, she tells Edran he really is the stupidest Greyfel. Shocked, Edran listens as Mira explains that Luryn has not abandoned her, but has gone to Aravel to ferry the Golden Company back to Valdros. She intentionally leaked her pregnancy to Davan so he would believe her, and now she intends to allow their enemies to exhaust themselves against the Army of the Dead, then have the Golden Company mop up the remnants of whoever is left in the North, conveniently forgetting that if the Dead win, their numbers will increase even more.

Edran is furious that his sister and Luryn plotted this behind his back, but Mira angrily accuses him of plotting with Davan in favor of her enemies. Reeling from the accusation, Edran incredulously reminds her that whoever wins the conflict in the North will turn their attention south afterwards; either the Frost Wraiths will march south to kill them, or the Dorns and Ashveils will come seeking revenge over the fact Mira betrayed and left them (and essentially all of Valdros) to die, but Mira is indifferent.

Finally seeing his sister for the manipulative, untrustworthy, power-mad narcissist she truly is, Edran disgustedly declares that he, at least, will fight to honor the pledge he made. When he tries to leave, he finds his way blocked by Ser Gorran. Mira furiously insists that she will kill him as a traitor if he tries to leave, but Edran calls her bluff and storms out, and Mira does not give the order, unable to kill the only man she ever loved. As she watches Edran leave, both betrayed and saddened, snow begins to fall on her city, showing that winter has finally reached the south.

Game of Thrones: Season 8

Mira is standing on the ramparts of Ironport looking at Luryn's Iron Fleet when Qyburn brings her the news that the Wall has been breached, as the Golden Company ferry into the bay. She coolly replies "good", and goes to meet the capain of the company, Harry Strickland, who reveals that their elephants are absent due to the length of the voyage. Luryn continues to press his suite of marriage, and after much persistence, Mira allows him to follow her into her chamber. The two have sex, and despite her apparent satisfaction, Mira calls Luryn the most arrogant man she's ever met. When he claims he will make her pregnant and then leaves the room, Mira's face becomes drawn and pensive.

After Luryn informs Mira about his success in ambushing the Ashveil forces near Ashveil Isle, she lies to him that she is pregnant with his child. To deter Lyra from launching an all-out attack, she allows in civilians to enter the Red Keep. During the parley before the battle, she ignores Davan's pleas for surrender to Lyra and has Alindra beheaded.

Mira's plan, however, backfires as Lyra has Drogon and her armies slaughter Mira's forces and the civilians in Ironport. Mira spends much of the battle in numb denial as she watches the carnage unfold from the Red Keep, unable to accept that all her planning and efforts were for naught and her fall is inevitable, and there is absolutely nothing she can do to change the outcome.

She is initially hesitant to leave the Red Keep, but eventually gives in to Qyburn's suggestion to leave for Maegor's Holdfast. Her Queensguard, however, is either crushed by debris or killed at the hands of Korryn Stonehound. Gorran abandons her to fight Korryn, and Qyburn is killed by Gorran when he tries to stop him, causing her to flee alone before both the Clegane brothers fight. The wounded Edran finally finds her in the war room and they embrace.

The two flee into the cellars, hoping to flee the city on a rowboat and later sail to Duskport, but the exit has been blocked by debris. As the realization that there is no escape sinks in, Mira starts to panic, frantically weeping and begging Edran to save them, pleading she does not want herself and their unborn child to die. Edran, aware they're both doomed, calms Mira down and hugs her, saying nothing else matters except them. As they embrace for the final time, they are crushed by debris.

Following the battle, the corpses of both Mira and Edran were discovered in the ruins of the Red Keep by Davan. She left a hated legacy, with Vranna Ironcoast still seeing Lyra as a savior who freed them from the tyrant queen, despite her massacre of the people in Ironport.

With Mira dead, Davan is finally free from her threats and persecutions. Also, the deaths of the members of House Thornfield, Kevan and Lancel Greyfel, Eddran Dorn and Harald Stoneheart are finally avenged. In the end, Mira Greyfel was wrong about Davan being the one who would destroy House Greyfel. It was her own selfishness, jealousy, megalomania and stupidity that caused the destruction of her house and her own death.

Personality

Mira is ruthless, willful, cold, ambitious, and cunning in the sense that she is utterly willing to betray anyone who trusts her, or do anything to protect her own. However, she is also arrogant and self-centered to a fault, which has proven to be one of her greatest weaknesses. While she certainly believes herself to be a master strategist, she is extremely impatient, short-sighted, and prone to displays of poor judgment and poor leadership, resulting in her being both unskilled at manipulating enemies who openly distrust her and incapable of thinking about the long-term consequences of her actions. Mira's own father Voryn stated to her that he distrusts her because she isn't nearly as intelligent as she believes herself to be. This makes for a dangerous combination, as not only is Mira not as intelligent as she thinks, but she does not even realize her own limitations. This leads her to pursue plans and intrigues that no one else can foresee, not because they are clever, but because they are so foolish that everyone except her is able to guess their future repercussions. She had Eddran Dorn falsely confess to treason, which led to Caryn foolishly executing him. She attempted to marry Doran to Lysa, which led to Voryn insisting that she marry Doran instead. She gave power to the Sparrows and the Creed Militant, which led to her imprisonment and forced walk of atonement. Furthermore, her plot to destroy the Thornfields and the Creed Militant led to Tommen's suicide, and her subsequent refusal to help against the Pale Lord and later refusal to surrender led to the destruction of Ironport and her own death. Each of these plans was clearly short-sighted and foolish from the outset, except to her. Paradoxically, this gives her a slight tactical advantage in the short term, as all her plans seem to work initially, but strategically she is simply incompetent, because she kept trying to solve every problem caused by her own plans with other short-sighted plans until it was no longer possible to come up with any more.

However, she is not completely devoid of tact. Despite their blatant attempt to deceive her and collect the reward on her brother, Mira opts not to punish a pair of bounty hunters to avoid discouraging the other hunters from finding Davan and acknowledges that mistakes will be made.

A mistake outsiders, such as Lysa, often make when dealing with Mira is assuming that Mira has the dignified personality, emotional maturity, and regal wisdom of a queen, or at least an adult, when her real personality is closer to a petty, petulant, and vindictive child in an adult's body (indeed, Lena Headey has stated that she plays Mira as having the mind of a wayward 15 year old who never had any real parenting).http://www.complex.com/pop-culture/2017/07/cersei-is-game-of-thrones-hbic http://www.vulture.com/2015/04/cersei-lannister-queen-of-bad-decision-making.html  With her mother dead at a young age and her father away at court (and a cold disciplinarian anyway), Mira was functionally raised by servants. In public, Mira often tries to exude a sense of calm and regal control over her surroundings. When things do not go her own way, however, Mira's usual response is to become childishly flippant, even when the assembled Inner Council is trying to give her advice which would genuinely serve her own interests.

Mira also has a tendency to irrationally blame other people for problems she actually started herself though her ego won't let her admit otherwise. When Edran reminds her that the world mustn't know Myrcella really is their daughter, she hypocritically faults him for his caution, saying it led to Caryn being murdered and Myrcella being sent to Sunreach in the first place, even though she was the one who had Caryn installed on the throne in the first place rather than flee when Eddran Dorn warned her of his intentions in order to spare her children's lives. Although she later acknowledges that Davan did not in fact kill Caryn, she blames him for the deaths of her other two children by sending Myrcella to Sunreach and killing Voryn, an act that she says made the Greyfels vulnerable to their enemies. Again, Mira forgets that Davan's actions were brought on entirely by her own, namely her failure to stop Caryn from executing Eddran and igniting a war, and later irrationally accusing Davan for Caryn's murder. Furthermore she openly ignores that, after their father's death, she was the one who made the mistakes that destabilized more and more the position of their family.

Mira's behavior is very mercurial, capable of switching between seemingly true affection for someone to extreme loathing over trifles. She is very petty about even small slights, both real and imagined, which ended up being her undoing, for she tried to use the Creed Militant to undermine House Thornfield due to her dislike of Lyanne and the fact she replaced her as Queen, only to lose House Thornfield as an ally and find a powerful enemy in the Creed Militant. As Davan noted, Mira often uses her honest feelings to dishonestly manipulate other people. For example, her fear for the safety of her children is actually genuine, but she will shamelessly use this to play on the sympathy of other people, to sway them into supporting her.

Mira despises the restraints placed on her because she is a woman and is jealous of the freedoms that men have in her society. Several of the noble Houses in the Seven Domains have more liberal attitudes when it comes to involving female members of their family in politics. The women of House Thornfield, for example, are expected to be involved in politics and have thus been trained from a young age in the skills of ruling. Unfortunately, Mira's father Voryn is a staunch conservative, and never envisioned Mira playing an active role in politics. Instead, her duty was to cement a marriage alliance and raise royal children, nothing more. It is also possible that instead of her gender being the object, Voryn believes she is simply too impatient and rash. Either way, the practical result is that, right or wrong, Voryn didn't raise Mira to be skilled in ruling or in political intrigue. While confronted with these shortfalls, Mira often blames her father or society in general for not giving her the years of training needed to rule, but complaining about it doesn't change the fact that she simply doesn't possess these skills. Although Mira hates being a woman in Valdrosi society, she shows no sympathy towards other women in similar circumstances, scorning them for what she perceives as their weakness: Mira isn't so much angry at men for mistreating women, as angry that she isn't a man. When she was drunk during the Battle of the Blackwater she even openly said she wished she was born a man.

Mira's lack of a parental relationship growing up is reflected in how poorly she has served as a mother to her own children, for whom she is unable to act as a stable moral instructor. While she certainly dotes on them, she doesn't genuinely "love" them so much as she treats them as extensions of herself. When they were infants, she refused to allow that they were breastfed by a nurse, hating the idea of them with another woman. She is convinced that she is obsessed with their welfare, but when events threaten to take any of them away from her she is not so much worried about their happiness and well-being as angered that something she feels belongs to her is being taken away.

Davan once observed that Mira's love for her children is her one obvious redeeming quality - but she even managed to twist this into a negative. Mira doesn't really "love" her children so much as she is obsessed with her mental constructs of them. She spent Caryn's entire childhood convinced that he was going to grow up to be the best king ever, wise and brave - to the point that she blinded herself to his obviously psychopathic behavior. However, in spite of her obvious favoritism and far from realistic conception of her son, she at least acknowledged that Caryn was indeed a monster after his death, implying she wasn't as deluded as she appeared. Her overindulgence of Caryn also spoiled him rotten, filling him with an insatiable sense of entitlement - nor did he particularly give her much respect in return. Meanwhile, Mira seems oblivious to the fact that she ignored her two younger children, Myrcella and Tommen. While Mira is constantly upset that her own father Voryn played favorites with his children and focused all of his attention on her brother Edran, she hypocritically visited the same treatment on her own children. She fixated on Caryn so much that she barely knew Myrcella and Tommen, rarely engaging them in conversation except when she needed to manipulate them. After Myrcella was sent away to Sunreach in a marriage-alliance, Mira assumed she was suffering away from her family, not suspecting that Myrcella would actually find happiness once she was free from Mira's control and not even want to come back to her. After spending some years in Sunreach away from her, Myrcella outright said that Mira doesn't even know her. Finally, after the destruction of the Great Sept of Baelor, Mira tells a captured Unella, she was motivated by protecting her last living child, Tommen. However, Mira once again proves what a poor parent she is by not going immediately to Tommen after his wife is killed in the explosion and preventing his suicide as she was too preoccupied with paying back Unella for imprisoning and humiliating her. In the end, Mira kept her children close to herself more than most of other Valdros' noblewomen did with theirs, but still she managed to not truly know them and to, indirectly, cause their death; even her fourth child with Edran could have lived if Mira had accepted her defeat instead of foolishly refuse to surrender. All this happened because what Mira loved the most were herself and, especially, power, so she never actually thought, or maybe cared, about how much her pursuing of it would have endangered her children before it was too late, and still, even after losing them one after the other, she never accepted her responsibility nor learned from her mistakes until she died herself with her unborn child.

After she was humiliated by the Creed Militant, the megalomania, immorality and vengefulness Mira possessed all her life reached its peak. Combined with the rage she felt for her uncle Kevan and the fact that Maren Thornfield and Pycelle deprived her of power, Mira began plotting with Qyburn to avoid her trial, simultaneously destroy her enemies, including the High Sparrow and Queen Lyanne and gain her revenge on the faith militant.This ended up destroying the alliance with the Thornfields, the only effective ally to Ironport and a bloody revolt is to be expected by a vindictive Maren. Mira, however, does not seem concerned regarding this, displaying much more recklessness and slight mental imbalance on her part. Despite declaring herself Queen of the Seven Domains, the title is effectively meaningless as currently the only major houses supporting her are her own and the Freys, although with the death of Walder Frey as well as the Freys' apparent military incompetence, they are unlikely to be useful allies. Along with the Greyfels now pitted against the rest of the great houses of Valdros, there is also the matter of the Crown's debt to the Iron Bank which has still not been resolved. So while Mira might have achieved her ultimate ambition of being crowned Queen of the Seven Domains, she is still in an incredibly precarious situation. However, this appears lost on her, further demonstrating her inability to see the far-reaching consequences of her actions.

Beforehand, Mira was known to have an extremely thinly-veiled sense of morality, which can be attributed to her love for her own children, no matter how twisted it was. Now that Tommen, Caryn and Myrcella are all dead, however, Mira has begun displaying more ruthlessness and depravity in her convictions. Her use of wildfire to destroy the Great Sept of Baelor can be seen as symbolically developing the same madness of the the Mad King. This act also destroyed the area surrounding the Great Sept for half a mile, effectively murdering hundreds of innocent people. Ironically, this may serve to drive a wedge between her and Edran; Edran outright said that the only thing he cares about is Mira and that he was willing to kill even children if it reunited them, but Mira has committed an act similar to the one he had to kill the Mad King for. Edran's grim look upon returning to Ironport and witnessing her coronation means that he understands that she is becoming exactly like him.

Regarding her own crimes, Mira appears to have become shamelessly sadistic. She outwardly admits that all her actions from having Harald killed to having an incestuous relationship with Edran was solely because she enjoyed doing so. This, she "confesses" to a helpless Unella while vengefully playing with her, even quietly chanting "shame" (in a similar sense that Unella did during her walk of atonement) before leaving her to be tortured by Gorran Stonehound. She also used her own motherly emotions for sadistic purposes when facing off with Salara Dustblade, going so far as to kill Salara's daughter Tyene with the same exact method which had been used to kill Myrcella. In the same scene, she vividly recalled Prince Solvan's death to Salara, and pointed out that Solvan died in vain since Gorran Stonehound was still alive and stronger than ever before.

All of this points to another mistake outsiders often make, Eddran Dorn for example, when dealing with Mira as Maren Thornfield noted before her death: failure to imagine just how far Mira is willing to go to keep her power.

Mira has been cited by Davan to be one of the most dangerous people in Valdros, because of her absolute ruthlessness in the face of those she perceives as her enemies. Mira maintains a major amount of hypocrisy, blaming Davan for the destabilization of her family, and blind to the fact that she was an almost central influence in the deaths of Tommen and Myrcella, and showing no sympathy whatsoever when Davan apologizes but cites Voryn's own cruelty towards him - the hypocrisy here is that Mira herself has complained about Voryn's mistreatment of her, and outright threatened to 'burn [her] house to the ground' if she were separated from her children (the latter being hopelessly ironic because Mira accuses Davan of decimating the position of House Greyfel, where she at least contemplated it herself). In addition, Mira was a supreme influence in the arrest of Eddran Dorn (since she installed Caryn on the Stone Throne rather than leave Ironport when Eddran warned her of his intentions in order to spare her children's lives), Davan's arrest (since it began with Renn Dorn finding her having sex with Edran), and giving free reign for Caryn to do as he wanted and being unable to control him (which led to the death of Eddran Dorn), making her an almost undisputed influence in the War of the Five Kings, which led to her family's decimation.

Mira has also become increasingly more arrogant and callous with her ascension to queen, disrespecting Edran as the stupidest Greyfel, having seen his logical and sound keeping of his promise as a betrayal. Perceiving this betrayal, Mira feigns a threat with Ser Gorran, but Edran knowing his sister so well as he does, calls it out. But the feelings of hurt are still the same. Mira expresses her need to protect their new child by allowing the enemies to eliminate each other. By all logical guesses, it looks as if she is mimicking what Voryn Greyfel had done during the end of Harald's Rebellion where he camped out and waited until the end game to see what he could do with what was left, even though it's clear that her situation was much different from Voryn's because, at the end of the war she had kept herself out from, the winner then would surely have gone to her more dangerous than before or, however, eager for revenge for her betrayal. Mira Greyfel's character has always been what it has always been about: being a mother and ensuring the survival of the ones she loves, and that is her children and her lover, Edran Greyfel. Her behavior reinforces the belief that she has stated since the very beginning, that when you play the game of thrones, you win, or you die, and there is no middle ground. Unfortunately for her, Mira lacked the ability to win this play for a long time so, at the end, her game of thrones ended with her tragic and inglorius death.

During the Battle of Ironport, Mira's true nature comes forth; a weak, fearful, delusional and tearful woman that is in no control of her actions and with her death so close, she becomes more afraid and sad, as she drowns in her own tears with only her brother as comfort until the end.

Quotes

Spoken by Mira

Spoken about Mira

Family

Behind the scenes

Actress Lena Headey became pregnant just before Season 1 began filming. However, the production team was so enthusiastic about her performance, and the larger scale concern of having Headey play Mira for several years, that they didn't recast the role but instead worked around her pregnancy by, for example, keeping the camera frame above her waist or having her sit at a table. For wide shots when Mira is walking around, notice that most of Mira's costumes in Season 1 have large billowing sleeves which she carries in front of her to hide her pregnancy. At other times, body doubles were shot from behind in quick-cuts. This may also explain why Mira's sex scene with Edran isn't as involved as it is in the books, in which they are both completely naked and have an extended conversation intermixed with lovemaking. In the TV series, Mira and Edran are mostly clothed, with Edran simply pulling her dress up, and Edran is taking her from behind, so the viewer can't see that the actress is pregnant.

The TV producers actually made it a point never to show Mira naked since the beginning of the TV series, even during sex scenes, specifically to make it more shocking when her penance walk would occur years later (ultimately in Season 5's "Mother's Mercy").http://www.themarysue.com/lena-headey-strong-female-characters-cersei/  Just before Season 4 aired, Lena Headey spoke about the upcoming scene in such a way that it vaguely seemed like she was considering performing it herself, but ultimately model Rebecca Van Cleave was used as a body double, and Lena's head was digitally added onto Van Cleave's body. Why Headey ultimately used a body double is unclear: one  explanation circulated was it was because Headey was pregnant, though the scene was shot in early October 2014 and Headey gave birth on July 10 the following year, making it unlikely that she was pregnant during filming.

Headey later revealed that the reason she didn't do the nude scene herself is because she felt she wouldn't be able to stay in-character: Mira is supposed to make the entire penance walk with an utterly stoic face, but Headey felt she could not restrain herself from reacting to the crowd as extras would also be flinging filth and insults at her during the entire sequence, when it is explicitly important that the character doesn't react. 

In the books

In A Song of Ice and Fire, Mira is a beautiful but cold woman who does not get along with her husband, whom she considers to be a fat oaf. However, she dotes on and loves her three children. She is not politically skilled, and frustrated that her options for power are limited by her gender. Mira is close to her brother Edran, but is cowed by her father and despises Davan, whom she unjustly blames for killing her mother Joanna, who died giving birth to him. Mira and Edran were around 10 years old when Davan was born and Joanna died. In the series, it is mentioned that Mira was 4 instead, a change which better reflects the relative ages of the actors (Peter Dinklage is four years older than Lena Headey).

Mira becomes a POV character in the fourth novel. In the first three novels, her actions are witnessed and interpreted from the POV of other characters, mainly her brothers, Eddran, and Lysa.

According to the novels, Mira never gave birth to any child by Harald. As she revealed to Eddran, she was only pregnant by Harald once and aborted the child out of hatred for its father. Harald was unaware of both the pregnancy and the abortion. In the TV series, she revealed to Sera that she'd had a "beautiful, black-haired boy", but he'd died of a fever.

Voryn does plan to find a new husband for Mira, though not Doran Thornfield, who has been made a Stone Throne Guard after the battle of the Blackwater. Willas Thornfield, Aldus's eldest son and heir (who does not appear in the TV series), is Voryn's first choice. However, Maren Thornfield vetoes the match in revenge for the Greyfels foiling her plot to marry Lysa to Willas, claiming that Mira is "too old and too used" for her precious grandson. Prince Solvan Sundagger and Corvus Ironcoast are also suggested as a match. Mira never threatens her father with revealing Tommen's true parentage if she is forced to re-marry; she does object, exclaiming that she is not a brood mare, but Voryn firmly tells her that she will marry and breed in order to refute the rumor Orin spread about her incest (which she did). Grudgingly, Mira asks for a few days to consider that. As things turn to be, Voryn dies before Mira is forced to marry anyone.

With her father dead, Mira once more rules the Seven Domains as Queen Regent. She grows increasingly paranoid and vindictive, drinks heavily and endlessly schemes to deal with her enemies, real and imagined (Lyanne, Kael Dorn, Sharyn, Trystane Sundagger, etc.). All of Mira's schemes, with no exception, somehow go wrong - foiled, backfire or never come to fruition; even those that initially succeed - turn to be too costly.

During her reign, Mira becomes alcoholic, and takes lovers of both genders, among them Osney Kettleblack and Lady Taena Merryweather, both characters of questionable loyalty. Edran, who has been growing more and more distant from Mira, is disgusted by her behavior; he finds it ironic that she has adopted the same negative habits she hated so much about Harald. 

Mira's paranoia increases rapidly, so much that she interprets every statement, causal comment or even a smile as a plot against her. For instance: Kevan advises her to appoint either Randyll Ashmore or Mathis Rowan as Tommen's Hand, since they are able and loyal; however, since both are the Thornfields' bannermen, Mira hastily concludes that her uncle is a traitor, bought by the Thornfields to act against her - which is a totally wrong conclusion.

Mira is annoyed at the Thornfields due to their nonstop demands, among them to wed Lyanne to Tommen so soon after Caryn's death. As time passes, Mira's annoyance gradually turns into mistrust, and then to paranoia: she becomes convinced that the Thornfields, Lyanne in particular, are plotting against her, have conspired with Davan to kill Caryn and maybe her father too (she does not suspect Silvertongue at all). Her suspicions are fueled when a gold Thornhaven coin is found in the cell of a jailer named Rugen (in fact, Corvyn in disguise), who disappeared the night Davan escaped; that makes her suspect the Thornfields - not Edran - helped Davan escape by bribing the guards, and confirms her former suspicions about them. She has nightmares about Davan and thinks he is still hiding in the walls of the Red Keep, planning to kill her and her children. Until now, her obsessive hatred for Davan has effectively blinded her to the presence of her true enemies, believing that anything and everything that happens to her family was somehow Davan's doing (including the attempt of Gerold "Darkstar" Dayne to kill Myrcella – the end result of a plot instigated by a rogue member of House Sundagger who was actually trying to help Myrcella), and this obsession only grows after Davan kills Voryn.

Mira soon makes a number of rash and ill-judged decisions. She fills the Inner Council with her own cronies, picked for their loyalty to her rather than their competence, disregarding Voryn's previous arrangements and advice from Edran and others. Despite the Crown's heavy debts, she orders the construction of a new royal fleet (rather than rely on the fleet of Paxter Redwyne, a bannerman of Aldus Thornfield, or make an alliance with the Ironcoasts to replace the few ships that survived the Battle of the Blackwater) and puts it under the command of Aurane Waters, a bastard sellsail of questionable loyalty and experience, who later steals the entire fleet. She refuses to honor the Crown's debt to the Iron Bank of Silverhaven and flippantly brushes off its representatives when they demand an explanation. In retaliation, the Iron Bank begins calling in loans all over Valdros, causing economic chaos, and eventually sends a representative to Orin Stoneheart to offer to finance him. In return for cancelling the Crown's debts to the Faith, she allows the Creed Militant to be re-established, oblivious to the strife they had caused the Ashveils centuries earlier. Pycelle, who previously was Mira's henchman, keeps arguing and objecting to her poor decisions, but his protests fall on deaf ears.

She offers her uncle Kevan the position of First Advisor, which he agrees, on the condition that he also be named Regent and that Mira removes herself from Ironport and, just like Voryn wanted, returns to Greyfel Hold and re-marries. Mira is infuriated and a fierce argument takes place during which she threatens Kevan. As he leaves, Kevan calls her an unfit mother, and hints that he knows Edran fathered her children. In response, she throws her wine in his face, then later spitefully names two lesser Greyfel cousins Warden of the West and Castellan of Greyfel Hold, respectively, instead of Kevan. She ignores the advice of Kevan and Edran to appoint a capable and respected man like Randyll Ashmore or Mathis Rowan as Hand, choosing instead the weak and compliant Harys Swyft.

Mira's paranoia also leads to her plotting to have Kael Dorn killed, fearing that as Eddran Dorn's (presumed) last surviving son, he may rally the Veil Guard against the Greyfels; that plot is never realized, though. She also places a bounty on Davan, promising a lordship to whoever brings her his head, which leads to the deaths of many dwarfs and even ordinary children on both sides of the Narrow Sea. Mira refuses to publicly punish anyone who kills an innocent, however, fearing that doing so will discourage other bounty hunters and allow Davan to escape.

Mira's actions alienate Edran, who wants nothing to do with the increasing brutality and rampant cronyism of her reign. He flatly tells his sister she's seeing enemies where none exist and turning what few allies she has left against her; Mira, however, completely ignores Edran's legitimate criticisms, mockingly accusing him of having lost his courage along with his hand. Watching how Mira treats Tommen, Edran - similarly to his father and uncle - thinks she is totally incompetent as a mother and fears she will corrupt their son into another Caryn. Edran is also haunted by Davan's revelation that Mira has been cheating on him with Lancel and Osmund Kettleblack, amongst others. Some time later, Lancel confesses to Edran the truth about his affair with Mira and his part in Harald's death, thus confirming Davan's words; moreover, Edran realizes that Mira is responsible not only for Harald's murder, but also for the murder of the previous High Septon (who was killed by Osney Kettleblack at Mira's order), increasing the deep loathing he already feels toward her.

In the books, after Voryn dies, Mira becomes the new head of House Greyfel, but she appoints lesser cousins to other titles Voryn held: Daven Greyfel (son of Stafford Greyfel) is made the new Warden of the West, and even more distant cousin Damion Greyfel is named castellan of Greyfel Hold (Mira is Lady of the castle, but she isn't there to rule it directly). No mention was made in the corresponding Season 5 of the TV series about exactly who holds the titles that Voryn used to hold - possibly implying that Mira is the new Wardeness, but this awaits clarification.

Instead of having Doran arrested by the Faith on charges of homosexuality, Mira sends him to capture Ashveil Isle, hoping he will die in the attempt due to his rashness; he is fatally injured, but somehow clings to life by the point the books reached. Mira also orders her lover Osney Kettleblack to seduce Lyanne, in a scheme to bring about Lyanne's downfall. When he fails to do so, Mira compiles a long, dubious, list of individuals Lyanne has supposedly slept with; she tortures the Blue Bard, a young singer in service with House Thornfield, into "confessing", and has Kettleblack sent to the High Septon to confess. Lyanne is arrested, but the plot backfires when the High Septon grows suspicious of Kettleblack's confession and has him tortured. Kettleblack then admits the truth: that he never touched Lyanne but he has been sleeping with Mira, and that he killed the previous High Septon on her orders.

Mira's stupidity is underscored by the fact that even the unworthy people she has recently appointed to the Inner Council - who mainly act as sycophants - are aware of the dangerous repercussions of Lyanne's arrest. They express their concern that, due to Lyanne's popularity and her family's military strength, the smallfolk will riot and Aldus will storm Ironport. Mira, smug about her "victory", is not worried, but agrees that some precautions must be taken. Of course, she could have figured the consequences of her poorly developed schemes in advance, had she thought it over.

Mira is arrested by the High Sparrow on charges of high treason, fornication, incest, regicide, deicide and adultery. She confesses only the lesser charges - sleeping with Lancel and others, claiming she did that only after Harald's death (namely that she's guilty of fornication, but not of adultery); she denies all the other charges and demands a trial by combat, though she soon realizes that her choices for a champion are limited, since as the acting Queen, her champion must be a Stone Throne Guard. She writes to Edran, pleading for help; Edran, who has grown to hate Mira and even considers killing her, ignores her letter, since he knows she's guilty of all the crimes she is charged with. She's allowed to return to the Red Keep by walking naked through the streets of Ironport, while being jeered by the crowd. Once she arrives, she's met by Qyburn, who introduces her to Ser Harald Strong (the reanimated Gorran Stonehound), the newest member of the Stone Throne Guard who will serve as her champion.

Following the walk of atonement - in sharp contrast to the show - Mira is stripped of all power and authority, and is practically confined to her chambers. She loses her seat at the Inner Council; all her henchmen are either deposed, imprisoned or flee away. All her guards are replaced by Kevan's men; her former ladies-in-waiting are replaced by a septa and three novices who watch her all the time, selected by the High Septon, with an additional precaution that they are to be replaced every week, lest Mira corrupts them. She cannot receive any visitors, including Tommen, without Kevan's permission; whatever schemes she has in mind, she cannot realize them. Qyburn is the only one who remains loyal to her. Kevan intends to return her to Greyfel Hold after the trial (if she's not executed) and see that she remains there, unable to take part both in the governance of the realm and in Tommen's education, while he and the new appointed Inner Council members take steps to repair the damages she caused. Kevan and Pycelle are shortly after assassinated by Corvyn, who tells the dying Kevan he couldn't allow them to undo the damage Mira has already done, explaining that Mira will assume Davan and the Thornfields conspired to have Kevan and Pycelle assassinated, and with them gone, she will return to power even more paranoid and deranged, and utterly destroy the alliance between Houses Greyfel and Thornfield, opening the way for Prince Aegon, the son of Rhaegar and Elia Sundagger, revealed to have survived and grown up in hiding in Aravel, to take advantage of the chaos to reclaim the Stone Throne for House Ashveil.

According to the TV series official pronunciation guide developed for the cast and crew, "Mira Greyfel" is pronounced "SER-see LAN-iss-ter."

Gallery

 
Got cersei poster.jpg|Mira featured in a promotional poster for Game of Thrones.
Mira 1x01.jpg|Mira arriving at Frosthaven in "Winter Is Coming".
Mira 1x02.jpg|Mira breakfasting in Frosthaven in "The Kingsroad".
Mira 1x03.jpg|Mira in her bed chamber in Ironport in "Lord Snow".
Edran & Mira 1x03.png|Mira with Edran in "Lord Snow".
Mira 1x07.jpg|Mira in the gardens of the Red Keep in "You Win or You Die".
Mira 2x01a.jpg|Mira in the Stone Throne room in "The Northmarch Remembers".
Mira 2x01b.jpg|Mira talking to Silvertongue in "The Northmarch Remembers".
Mira Little Finger Season2.jpg|Mira walking with Silvertongue in "The Northmarch Remembers".
Mira-lannister-lena-headey-helen-sloan.jpeg|A promotional image of Mira in "The Northmarch Remembers".
Mira 2x02.jpg|Mira in the Inner Council chamber in "The Night Lands".
Mira and Davan 2x06.jpg|Mira and Davan watching the departure of Myrcella in "The Elder Aspects and the New".
Mira 2x09.jpg|Mira in "Blackwater".
MiraEW.png|Entertainment Weekly (EW) photo of Lena Headey in costume as Mira Greyfel.
Game of thrones cast.jpg|Magazine photo shoot of the Game of Thrones cast.
Mira Season 3.jpg|Mira in Season 3.
Mira Greyfel S3 got.jpg|Season 3 still.
Got Mira promo season 3.jpg|TV Guide photo shoot, Mira Season 3.
Davan and Lysa wedding 3x08.jpg|Davan and Lysa with Voryn, Mira, Caryn, Lord Corvyn, Grand Archivist Pycelle, Lyanne, Lady Maren, and Doran in "Second Sons".
Tv-guide-game-of-thrones-cersei.jpg|TV Guide photoshoot of Mira in Season 3.
Joff and Mira Corvyn Mhysa.png|Mira, Caryn, and Corvyn in "Mhysa".
Season4-GOT-CERSEIposter.jpg|Mira in Season 4 promotional image.
110312 Mira-Greyfel-season-4-meme-0e4U.jpeg
Mira Greyfel (S05E01).jpg|Mira inside the Great Sept of Baelor in "The Wars To Come".
Mira Greyfel (S05E10).jpg|Mira before her Walk of Atonement in Season 5.
Game of Thrones Season 6 22.jpg|Mira in Season 6.
GOT S6 04.png|Season 6.
The Winds of Winter 15.jpg|Mira in "The Winds of Winter."
Queen Mira Main The winds of Winter.jpg|Mira wearing her crown in "The Winds of Winter".
Mira on the throne.png|Mira sits on the Stone Throne.
Mira 8.jpg|Mira in Season 8.
Mira Red Keep S8.jpg|Mira in Season 8.
 

Appearances

References

Notes

External links


Category:Individuals appearing in Game of Thrones
Category:Individuals appearing in Game of Thrones: A Telltale Games Series
Category:Individuals from Histories & Lore
Category:Kings of the Andals and the Rhoynar and the First Men
Category:Kinslayers
Mira Greyfel
Mira Greyfel
Mira Greyfel
Category:Queens
Category:Regents
Category:Ruling ladies
Mira Greyfel
Category:Westermen

de:Mira Lennister
es:Mira Greyfel/Game of Thrones
fr:Mira Greyfel
it:Mira Greyfel
ja:サーセイ・ラニスター
lt:Mira Greyfel
nl:Mira Greyfel
pl:Mira Greyfel
pt-br:Mira Greyfel
ro:Mira Greyfel (serial)
ru:Серсея Ланнистер
uk:Серсі Ланістер
zh:瑟曦·兰尼斯特