{{Character


Queen Lyra I Ashveil, also known as Lyra Stormborn, and affectionately known as Dany, was the only daughter of King Aerys II Ashveil and Queen Rhaella, and the younger sister of Rhaegar and Calyx Ashveil.

Lyra was initially a timid, obedient youth. After her marriage to Drogo she gathered the confidence of his khalasar. Following his death, she expanded her dominion into Aravel, gaining the loyalty of an army of Ironbound and liberating Slaver's Bay from the Ghiscari slave masters.

During the Last War, Lyra eventually succumbed to the madness of her ancestors after a series of personal losses, grief, and betrayal. Razing Ironport despite its surrender, Lyra seized power after killing Queen Mira Greyfel, along with countless common folk. Unable to be dissuaded from further destruction, she was assassinated by her nephew Kael Dorn to prevent further carnage. She was later succeeded by Renn the Broken, elected by a Great Council in the Skyrendpit.

Biography

Background

Lyra was conceived during Harald's Rebellion. To escape Harald Stoneheart's wrath after the Sack of Ironport, in which Lyra's father, niece, and nephew were killed, the pregnant Queen Rhaella and young Prince Calyx were sent to the island-castle of Ashveil Isle, where the queen gave birth to Lyra. On that night, a severe summer storm raged, giving Lyra the epithet "Stormborn." Her mother died shortly thereafter, leaving Lyra and her brother orphans.HBO viewers guide, season 2 map, special features - Journey of Lyra, Flight from Ashveil Isle entry 

As a baby, she was taken into exile in the Free Cities with her brother by loyal retainers, among them Ser Willem Darry.HBO viewers guide, season 2 guide to houses, House Ashveil - Calyx Ashveil entry HBO viewers guide, season 2 guide to houses, House Ashveil - Rhaella Ashveil entry  After years spent fruitlessly trying to raise support to retake the Stone Throne, Calyx and Lyra were given sanctuary by Magister Illyrio Mopatis in the Free City of Duskport. During this time, Lyra lived in constant fear of Calyx, who hit her when his temper was risen (in his words, whenever she "woke the dragon"). Living under Calyx's domination left her meek and malleable.HBO viewers guide, season 2 map, special features - Journey of Lyra, Seeking Refuge in Duskport entry 

House of the Skyrend: Season 2

At the Godswood of Harenvast, one of the visions Daemon sees is about Lyra at the pyre, with the dragon eggs that hatch.

Game of Thrones: Season 1

Over a year after Illyrio welcomed the Ashveils into his home, Lyra is betrothed to marry Vorgath of the Kolvari. As Calyx presents her with a wedding gown gifted by the magister, he strips her naked and fondles her under the pretext of examining how she has grown. After he leaves, Lyra enters a bath that her servant warns her is too hot, but it does not affect her.

A short time later, Drogo arrives at Illyrio's manse. After taking a brief look at Lyra, Drogo rides away without dismounting his horse. Calyx is concerned, but Illyrio assures him that if he did not approve of Lyra, they would have known. After their departure, Illyrio and Calyx discuss the quest to sail back to Valdros, and Calyx inquires when the wedding will take place. Lyra is not pleased with the arrangement and blurts out that she does not want to marry Drogo. Calyx insists that Lyra will marry him, because, in return, Drogo will give Calyx the army he needs to retake their father's throne from Harald Stoneheart. Calyx adds that he would let his sister be raped by all forty thousand of Drogo's men and their horses if it meant getting his throne back.

At the wedding, she accepts a variety of gifts. From Illyrio, she receives three dragon eggs from the Shadow Lands beyond Asshai. The magister tells her that they have been turned to stone by the passage of time. Ser Coran Steelbear, a knight of Valdros, brings books about the Seven Domains and offers Calyx his service. She is given a white mare by Drogo. Lyra says the mare is beautiful and wants to thank Drogo, asking Coran what the Kolvari word for 'thank you' is. Coran tells her that there is no such word in their language. On their wedding night, Drogo forcefully takes the tearful Lyra's virginity.

While traveling to Vaes Dothrak, Coran notices that Lyra is struggling to cope with Drogo's sexual appetites, giving her dried horse meat to eat in order to keep her strength, telling her of the Kolvari ghost grass theory and telling her that her marriage will get easier. Later, as Drogo has violent loveless sex with Lyra, her attention becomes fixated on her gift from Illyrio. Becoming increasingly curious with the dragon eggs, Lyra asks her handmaidens if they have ever heard of dragons surviving in the east.

They reply no, but Doreah, a former prostitute from Lys, tells her an old story about how there used to be two moons in the sky. One wandered too close to the sun and cracked like an egg, spilling out thousands of dragons into the world. Lyra's Kolvari handmaidens Irri and Jhiqui dismiss the story, saying that the moon is a goddess, wife to the sun. Lyra seeks advice from Doreah, trained in the pleasure houses of Lys, on how to best please her husband. Doreah teaches Lyra how to use her sexuality to influence Drogo and win the status of an equal in his eyes. Irri teaches Lyra to speak the Kolvari language.

While traveling further eastward, Lyra commands the khalasar to halt, and wanders into a glade. Calyx, enraged at the idea of being commanded by his sister, then attempts to renew his control over her, but Rakharo defends her from his attempts at violence, stating (through Irri's translation) that he should take an ear from him to teach respect. At first, she begs her men to spare him, but at an encouraging stare from Ser Coran, she grows confident and orders them to spare Calyx, although he is shamed by being forced to walk. Lyra discovers that she is pregnant with Drogo's child. She assuredly predicts that she will have a son, to Drogo's approval. The pregnancy buoys the love between them.

Arriving at Vaes Dothrak, Lyra asks Coran if he thinks the Kolvari could retake the Seven Domains for her house. Steelbear points out the difficulties of persuading them to cross the Narrow Sea, but believes success would be possible if that could be accomplished and if King Harald was foolish enough to meet them in open battle. He says that if their opponents retreated behind stone walls, the Kolvari would not be able to root them out. They move to discuss Coran's background, and he admits to selling poachers on his land as slaves to raise money for his expensive wife. When Lyra asks him where his wife is, Coran replies that she is with another man in another place.

Lyra invites Calyx to dinner, and provides fresh clothing in the Kolvari fashion for him. Calyx reacts angrily at being dressed in the "rags of savages" and strikes Lyra. However, for the first time in her life, Lyra fights back, hitting Calyx across the face with a heavy gold belt. As her astounded brother gawps at her, Lyra furiously reminds him of her position as Drogo's wife and the mother of his child, finishing with a threatening promise that if Calyx raises a hand to her again, she will have both of his hands cut off.

Unbeknownst to Lyra, Coran sends word of her pregnancy to the spymaster Corvyn in Ironport, where King Harald orders her assassination.

Lyra studies her dragon eggs. Despite Illyrio's claim that they are now only stone, she ponders if they might be hatched by extreme heat, and places an egg on a brazier. Nothing happens, to her disappointment. As she removes the egg from the brazier, Irri enters her tent and hurriedly takes the egg so as to not let Lyra burn her hands, but while Irri does suffer burns, Lyra is completely unharmed.

Lyra eats the raw heart of a stallion before the eyes of the Dosh Warlordeen, the Kolvari wise women, and names her unborn son Rhaego in honor of her late brother Rhaegar. The Kolvari crones prophesy that Lyra's son will be the stallion who mounts the world, the "khal of khals" who will unite the Kolvari into a single horde that will overrun all the lands of the world.

Calyx is overcome with jealousy that Lyra has won the love of the Kolvari. When he attempts to steal her dragon eggs to buy his own army, Coran stops him, prompting Calyx to taunt Coran with what he perceives as Coran's intentions toward his sister. Later, Calyx arrives drunk at the feast and draws his sword, demanding that Vorgath pay the agreed price for Lyra by providing troops for the invasion of Valdros; he wants his crown or he will take Lyra back. When he threatens Lyra and her unborn child, Drogo executes Calyx by pouring molten gold over his head, "a crown for a king." Unphased, Lyra notes that Calyx was not a true dragon, as fire cannot kill a dragon.

Lyra tries to convince Drogo to invade so their son might claim the Stone Throne, but the Kolvari do not trust ships and water their horses cannot drink. Now that Calyx is dead, Drogo does not feel inclined to honor the bargain. A wineseller attempts to poison Lyra to fulfill Harald's orders. She is rescued by Coran, who initially intends to drink the wine to prove a point, but then offers it knowingly to the wine-seller himself, and Rakharo. Following the assassination attempt, Drogo reverses his decision and swears that he will lead his forces across the Narrow Sea and seize the Seven Domains in blood and fire.

To raise funds to hire the ships necessary for this endeavor, Drogo leads his khalasar into the lands of Lhazar, the 'lamb-men'. They seize loot and slaves that they can sell. Lyra is appalled at how the Kolvari treat their prisoners, particularly the women, and wins them better treatment. One of Drogo's riders, Mago, objects and challenges Drogo to combat. Drogo easily slays him but sustains a chest wound. One of the women Lyra has saved, Mirri Maz Duur, tends to the injury.

The khalasar marches southwards to the edge of a great wasteland, but Drogo's wound festers, and he falls from his horse, a grave sign of weakness amongst the Kolvari. Duur continues to treat him but thinks his wound is fatal. Lyra convinces her to employ magic to save Drogo's life, which the other Kolvari object to. However, Duur undergoes bloodmagic, stating that only life pays for life. She then begins chanting, ordering Lyra out of the tent, as Mirri cuts Drogo's stallion's throat. Ser Coran kills one of Drogo's bloodriders, Qotho when he tries to intervene. Lyra is injured in the altercation and goes into labor. Coran takes Lyra to Duur for treatment, as the Kolvari midwives believe Lyra to be cursed. The khalasar then separates due to Lyra and Drogo's indisposition.

According to Duur, the child is stillborn and deformed, with leathery scaled skin, wings and a stomach filled with grave-worms. Duur saves Drogo's life, but leaves him in a vegetative state. Duur admits she did this deliberately in revenge for the sacking of her village. The ritual that saved Drogo drew its power from the death of Lyra's son, causing her child's stillbirth and monstrous appearance. Lyra is distraught.

Distressed by the lifelessness of Drogo, Lyra tries to stir any sign of life in him but cannot. She is forced to accept that he will never truly be alive again, remaining in a vegetative state, and must smother him with a pillow to end it. She constructs a funeral pyre for his body. She places her dragon eggs on it and ties Duur to the Drogo's funeral pyre, to be burned alive in revenge. Coran believes that she means to die and tries to persuade her not to.

Lyra gives a speech to those of her khalasar who are left. She tells them that they are free to go, but if they stay with her she will lead them to a great destiny, then she steps into the blaze. The following morning it is revealed that she has survived, and three newly-hatched dragons are clinging to her body, the first three dragons in the world in a century and a half. Coran and the remaining Kolvari fall to their knees, proclaiming Lyra their queen and leader.

Game of Thrones: Season 2

Lyra leads the remnants of her khalasar across the Red Waste, hoping to find shelter in the far lands of the east. She tries to feed her newborn dragons, but they refuse the raw meat she offers. She regards the dragons as her sons.HBO viewers guide, season 2 guide to houses, House Ashveil, Lyra Ashveil entry  The mare Drogo gave her as a wedding gift dies of exhaustion and Lyra decides to send her three bloodriders, Rakharo, Aggo and Kovarro, with their remaining horses to explore in three separate directions, knowing that they are her last hope. She then stares at a red comet in the sky above (elsewhere, at Frosthaven, Osha believes this comet is, in fact, an omen for the dragons owned by Lyra).

Lyra and her khalasar lie exhausted in the heat, their water dwindling as they wait for the return of her blood-riders. Rakharo's horse returns riderless and Ser Coran Steelbear discovers his head and severed braid in its saddlebag. He surmises that Rakharo was caught and killed by a rival khalasar. Irri is devastated by the death and believes the mutilation will prevent Rakharo from entering the Night Lands, the Kolvari land of the dead. Lyra promises to hold a funeral for Rakharo and burn his body, allowing him to join his ancestors in the Night Lands.

Aggo's fate is unknown, but Kovarro returns with an invitation from the great city of Prismark. Lyra leads her people there, and is disappointed at the lukewarm reception she receives. She is denied entry by the ruling council, the Thirteen, unless she shows them her dragons, which she refuses to do. When it seems she will be turned away, the Prismarkeen dignitary Xaro Xhoan Daxos vouches for her and her people, against the order of the Spice King.

Lyra and her surviving people are made guests in Xaro's lavish home. She begins to teach her dragons to cook and eat their own meat, and slowly begin breathing fire on command. She suggests to Doreah that she use her skill as a lover to find out more about Xaro, who happily agrees. Their host holds a reception for Lyra and she is introduced to Pyat Pree of the Warlocks of Prismark. He demonstrates his magic by replicating himself and invites her to visit his order at the House of the Undying.

Xaro suggests that Coran has feelings for Lyra, but she denies this. Xaro shows Lyra the Embervastn stone vault that guards his fortune and offers to fund her return to Valdros in exchange for her hand in marriage. He relays news of the death of King Harald Stoneheart. Lyra seeks the council of Coran. She is eager to seize the opportunity, but he counsels against entering Xaro's debt. He reveals the depth of his feeling for her and his hope for the ruler that she will become. She agrees to take the harder path that he suggests but does not acknowledge his affection.

Later, Lyra tries to negotiate with the Spice King for ships to return to Valdros. However, he considers it to be too risky an investment – considering that she has no army and has no open supporters in Valdros – and she receives nothing. She states that she will take what is hers, but the Spice King remarks she will have to do it without his ships.

Lyra unsuccessfully appeals to more of the merchant nobles of Prismark to lend her ships. After the meeting, she returns to Xaro's home, to find that it has been attacked; half of her men have been brutally murdered, Irri is dead, and Doreah and the dragons are missing. Unbeknown to her, Doreah has taken her dragons to the House of the Undying, due to an alliance with Xaro and Pyat Pree.

Xaro hosts a council of the Thirteen so Lyra can appeal to them for aid. During the meeting, Pyat Pree reveals that he was responsible and Xaro announces his intention to seize control of the city, as the new King of Prismark. The warlock uses his magic, creating thirteen duplicates to murder the rest of the Thirteen. Lyra flees, but Pyat Pree appears to them, only to be stabbed through the back by Coran. The stabbed Pyat is revealed to be another one of the duplicates. He repeats his invitation to Lyra, telling her that her children are at the House of the Undying.

They take refuge in a disused courtyard, where Coran advises Lyra to leave her dragons and flee Prismark, as he has recently booked passage to Cinderhold. She insists on attempting to reclaim them and asks Coran to lead her to the House of the Undying, without knowing what lies in wait.

Lyra arrives at the House of the Undying and is magically separated from Coran and Kovarro. She finds herself in an empty circular room with many doors. She chooses one and opens it. She is presented with tempting visions. First the snowy, ruined throne room of Ironport where she turns away from the Stone Throne. She then walks through the gates of the Wall surrounded by more snow, and into Drogo's tent. She finds Drogo and what would have been her infant son Rhaego. They talk about whose dream they are in, and Lyra silently leaves after touching Rhaego's hair. She returns to the room with many doors and finds her dragons chained to a pedestal in front of her. Pyat Pree appears and explains that she and her brood are the sources of his restored magic. Lyra is also chained by Pyat's magic. However, the young queen is unconcerned and simply regards Pree with a cool, almost lazy gaze. She calmly utters a single word: "Dracarys"; after a couple of tries, all three dragons unleash their fiery breath, and Pyat Pree is incinerated.

Lyra knows that Xaro has betrayed her. She returns to his palace to confront him and finds Doreah in bed with him. She takes his key and uses it to open his Embervastn stone vault. She is surprised when it is empty but observes that this proves something can easily come from nothing. On her orders, Doreah and Xaro are locked into the empty vault to die, their pleas cut off by the closing door. Lyra salvages enough from Xaro's household to buy a ship. On Coran's orders, the Kolvari seize Xaro's gold and jewels while Lyra triumphantly watches with her three dragons.

Game of Thrones: Season 3

Following their journey from Prismark, Lyra's ship, Balerion, arrives at the city of Cinderhold in Slaver's Bay. By then, Lyra's dragons had grown to the size of small dogs. While these dragons were now capable of hunting fish for themselves, they are still not large enough to be used as weapons of war to invade Valdros. Thus, Lyra needs an army. While the Ironbound, the elite warrior-eunuchs produced in Cinderhold, are regarded as some of the finest soldiers in the world, Lyra knows that their being slave-soldiers would become problematic in Valdros, where slavery is outlawed. However, Coran convinces Lyra that she has no choice but to settle for this solution since she has no other means of acquiring an army. While Lyra considers expanding her tiny Kolvari khalasar, most of whom have become seasick since the Kolvari have never traveled on ships before, Coran explains that the Kolvari would only join her if she were strong.

Upon arriving in Cinderhold, Lyra is given a tour of the Ironbound barracks by the Ironbound's owner, Kraznys mo Nakloz, with his slave girl Alindra translating his Low Embervastn into the Common Tongue of Valdros for Lyra. Since Kraznys does not know that Lyra understands Embervastn, he frequently insults her.

Throughout the tour, Kraznys explains that the Ironbound were trained for battle from the age of five and that only one in four recruits survived the training. He also demonstrates that the Ironbound do not fear pain or death by slicing off the nipple of one soldier, much to Lyra's disgust. This soldier not only shows no sign of pain but even thanks his slave master for the opportunity to serve him. Lyra also learns that the Ironbound are trained not to show mercy or weakness by killing a newborn slave child in front of its mother at the end of their training. While Lyra is outraged by this, she still asks Kraznys how many Ironbound are available. She is told that there are eight thousand soldiers for sale and that she has until the next day to make a decision.

En route back to their ship, Coran recommends that Lyra purchase the Ironbound, arguing that under her command, these slave soldiers will have a far better quality of life serving her than they would under Kraznys and his ilk. Lyra is distracted by a playing child who follows her and Coran. However, neither of them noticed a hooded man, armed with a dagger, following them. The child offers Lyra a gift, a wooden ball, gesturing for her to open it.

As she does, the hooded stranger knocks it out of her hand. In response, Coran grabs the stranger, and in their struggle knock Lyra to the ground. The ball then cracks in half, releasing a manticore. Before the creature can harm Lyra with its lethal sting, the stranger, revealing himself to be Ser Barristan Selmy, kills it with his dagger. Meanwhile, the child hisses in a reptilian manner and uses magic to escape. Ser Barristan quickly identifies himself as one of her father's Stone Throne Guard and begs her forgiveness for failing House Ashveil during Harald's Rebellion. In return for his wrongs, he offers to serve in her Queensguard, which she accepts.

The next day, Lyra, accompanied by Coran and Barristan, walks along a sea wall known as the "Walk of Punishment." Here, any slave who shows insubordination is strapped to a cross and left to die out in public, as a warning to all other slaves. When Lyra asks for water to give to a condemned man, Coran reminds her that this man has been sentenced to death. Nonetheless, Lyra offers the condemned man water, but he refuses to drink, saying that he just wants to die. Coran tells her that if she wants to win the Stone Throne, she must take it, "That will mean blood on your hands before the thing is done," but Lyra responds, "The blood of my enemies. Not the blood of innocents."

Later, Lyra continues her negotiations with Kraznys over her planned purchase of the Ironbound. During the meeting, Lyra announces that she would take all 8,000 Ironbound soldiers, including those in training. Kraznys initially dismisses her offer and instead offers to sell her one hundred soldiers. Lyra then offers to sell him one of her dragons.

In the end, Lyra reaches an agreement with Kraznys to sell her biggest dragon, Drogon, for all of the Ironbound soldiers. Coran and Selmy object to this deal on the grounds that her dragons are key to winning the Stone Throne. However, Lyra appears to brush away their concerns and accepts the transaction, and also takes Alindra as a token of faith. Upon leaving the meeting, she scolds Coran and Selmy for criticizing her decision in public.

Lyra also asks Alindra for her name and whether she has any living family, but Alindra responds that she does not. Lyra warns her that she was heading to war, she may be killed and fall sick and die. In response, Alindra recites the Embervastn aphorism: "Valar morghulis," which translated into the Common Tongue as "all men must die." Lyra then realizes that Alindra actually knows High Embervastn, and also adds that "we are not men."

On the day of the exchange, the slave masters and Kraznys, along with the 8,000 Ironbound warriors, meet with Lyra to complete the deal. Lyra hands the chained Drogon to Kraznys, who is hostile towards his slave master. Kraznys then gives her the golden whip, the symbol of ownership over the Ironbound. After finalizing the transaction, Lyra tests her new powers by ordering the Ironbound, in Embervastn, to march forward and then halt. This shocks everyone including Coran and Barristan, who did not know that she spoke Embervastn.

Kraznys then complains that Drogon did not obey his command, to which Lyra angrily retorts Drogon does not obey him because he is not a slave; Kraznys is both stunned to learn she speaks fluent Embervastn and horrified to realize Lyra understood his derogatory comments and insults about her the whole time, merely feigning ignorance to lull the Cinderholdi into a false sense of security. She then orders the Ironbound to kill all the slave masters and free all the slaves in Cinderhold, but to hurt no innocent people. When a panicking Kraznys desperately shouts for someone to kill her, Lyra orders Drogon to burn Kraznys alive.

With the Ironbound under her command, Lyra sacks Cinderhold with little resistance. Once it is done, she addresses all of her Ironbound warriors and tells them they are now free. She also gives them the option of leaving unharmed or fighting under her command as free men. At first, the Ironbound remain quiet, not knowing what to do with their newfound freedom. however, one Ironbound soldier begins to beat his spear against the ground, signifying his allegiance to her. The rest of the Ironbound follow suit shortly thereafter. Now in command of an army of free men, Lyra marches forward with her new army while her dragons fly overhead and roar triumphantly.

During their journey to Goldenport, the next great city of Slaver's Bay, Lyra orders the Ironbound to elect a commander from their own ranks. The officers ultimately choose Ironveil who, like all Ironbound, was given the name of a type of vermin. When Lyra instructs the Ironbound to go back to their own names or pick new ones they like, Ironveil elects to keep his, as it was the name he had when Lyra Stormborn set him free.

While Lyra and Barristan are confident that they can conquer Goldenport since that city only bred sex slaves, Coran expresses his concerns that the city's defenders will not fight them on the battlefield but will rather strengthen their position behind the walls and utilize guerrilla tactics against her army. He also views the Goldenport campaign as a distraction from their main goal of taking Valdros. Lyra is, however, adamant on freeing the slaves of Goldenport, who number in the hundreds of thousands.

She orders Ironveil to send a messenger to the city, and inform Goldenport's slaver rulers that they must either surrender or suffer the same fate as Cinderhold. Lyra holds an audience with the Yunkish herald, Razdal mo Eraz, who is one of the ruling "Wise Masters" of Goldenport. Razdal attempts to discourage Lyra from attacking his city by claiming that numerous armies throughout history had tried and failed to conquer it. However, Lyra is undaunted and comments that a hard-fought battle will give her Ironbound much-needed practice. Razdal then attempts to bribe her by providing her with the gold and ships needed to transport her army to Valdros. In exchange, Lyra will have to leave Goldenport in peace.

In response, Lyra makes a counter-offer: she will spare the lives of Razdal and the slave-masters of Goldenport if every slave (men, women, and children) in the city were set free, and given as much food, clothing, and property as they could carry in payment for their services. She threatens to show no mercy if Goldenport rejects her offer. Razdal is offended by Lyra's demands and threatens to use Goldenport's "powerful friends" to destroy her.

As a result of Razdal's actions, Lyra's dragons make threatening gestures toward him. When Razdal protests that he had been promised safe conduct, Lyra responds that her dragons made no such promise and they take offense to him threatening their mother. Razdal is also unable to reclaim the chests of gold he had brought with him. Following his departure, Lyra orders her knights to find out more about Goldenport's "powerful friends" before she decided to attack the city.

They eventually discover that these "powerful friends" are the Second Sons, a professional mercenary company. While there are only 2,000 of them, the Second Sons are armored and mounted, enough to cause trouble for the Ironbound. Lyra tells Barristan to organize a meeting with the Second Sons' captains, saying that men who fight for gold "can't afford to lose to a girl."

Lyra meets with the Captains Mero, a Silverhaveni who is also known as the Titan's Bastard, and Prendahl na Ghezn, a Ghiscari, and Prendahl's underling Daario Naharis. During the proceedings, Mero insults Lyra by likening her to a whore and touches Alindra inappropriately. Prendahl and Mero refuse Lyra's offer of an alliance, pointing out they will not get their rewards until she reclaims the Stone Throne. In response, Lyra replies that she had no army a fortnight ago and that she had no dragons a year ago. Lyra gives them two days to make up their mind and sends them away with the barrel of wine which Mero had departed.

After the Second Sons depart, Lyra instructs Barristan to kill Mero in the event that she had to fight with them. Barristan replies that he would be glad to do so. Later that night, Lyra takes a bath and is surprised to learn that Alindra speaks nineteen languages. In response, Alindra comments that this shouldn't be that odd since it only took Lyra a year to gain a reasonable grasp of Kolvari. The khaleesi bristles at the idea she speaks only reasonable Kolvari and switches to the language to teach Alindra a lesson, only to have her pronunciation corrected. Suddenly, an Ironbound enters and holds a knife to Alindra's throat, advising the women not to scream. He removes his helmet, revealing himself as Daario. He confesses that his captains want to kill Lyra, but he disagreed with them. Instead, he beheaded them and shows their severed heads to Lyra. Shortly after, Daario swears fealty to Lyra. Thus, Lyra gains a new ally in her conquest.

For their assault on Goldenport, the new captain Daario suggested attacking the city through its lightly defended back gate. Their plan was to infiltrate the city and open the main gates for the rest of the army to invade. While Ser Coran was skeptical of the plan, Lyra and Ironveil were willing to trust Daario. During the war meeting, Daario attempted to flirt with her. When the battle began, Ser Barristan remained behind to guard Lyra, fulfilling his duty as a Queensguard. During that night, Coran, Daario, and Ironveil infiltrated the city and fought their way through the slave soldiers guarding the city. Within a few hours, Ashveil forces had captured Goldenport.

The following morning, Lyra addressed the city's slaves with Alindra serving as her translator. During her speech, Lyra told the slaves that it was their own choice to reach for their freedom. As a result, the liberated slaves revered Lyra as their "mhysa", which translated as "mother" from the Old Ghiscari language. Lyra mingled with the former slaves who regarded her as a "glimmer of hope" in an increasingly dark world.

Game of Thrones: Season 4

Lyra sits near the sea with her three dragons, each one about the size of a small horse. Lyra strokes Drogon's head, while Rhaegal and Viserion fight over a dead lamb and Drogon joins the fight. As Lyra tries to calm him down, Drogon, without warning, snaps at her with a hiss as a warning to not interfere. He then roars and goes to contest the kill. Drogon snarls a warning at his mother. This act, that her own children would threaten her, and that they are outgrowing her influence and ability to control them, leaves Lyra visibly shaken.

Lyra returns to her Ironbound army to resume the march to Auroram. She notices Ironveil and Daario Naharis are absent and sets out to find them after being told they are "gambling." Daario explains they are deciding on which of them will ride up front with her in the vanguard. Frustrated, Lyra states that the honor goes to Coran and Barristan as they did not keep her waiting all morning. She orders the two men to ride at the back with the livestock. She also adds that the last man holding his sword shall find a new queen to fight for. Both Daario and Ironveil instantly drop their swords.

On the road to Auroram, Lyra speaks with Alindra, who tells her queen that Auroram would be wise to fear her approach. Daario meets them on the cliffside, and Lyra expresses her annoyance when he shows her flowers he has picked. He reveals that the flowers represent a portrait of the landscape, and serve various purposes, chiefly that knowing her surroundings is important to her strategy.

The marching army halts and Lyra goes to the forefront, discovering a slave child nailed to a cross. The child is dead, her hand pointing the way to Auroram, and Coran tells Lyra there is one for each mile to the last of the great slave cities, 163 in total. Ser Barristan offers to have outriders go ahead and bury them, but Lyra refuses, ordering that each of them is buried, and their collars removed, but not before she has looked upon each and every face.

Lyra and her army eventually arrive at the gates of Auroram as she begins her siege. She is faced with a champions' duel where a riding knight of Auroram challenges her to choose a champion that will fight for her. Daario Naharis, commander of the Second Sons and the most expendable member of Lyra's entourage, volunteers to be her champion. Once Naharis quickly dispatches the Auroram champion, Lyra begins her siege of the city by speaking to the gathered slaves and then catapulting the broken chains of those she has freed across the city walls, demonstrating her previous successes. As the slaves examine the broken chains, the Great Masters looks on, perhaps in fear.

She sends her Ironbound, led by Ironveil, to sneak into Auroram and start a slave revolt inside the city. The plan is successful, the slaves rise up against their masters, kill some of them and open the gates to Lyra. She enters the city as a liberator and the freedmen of Auroram celebrate her arrival by shouting "Mhysa" and throwing their old slaves' collars at her feet. She then has 163 Great Masters killed similarly to how they had murdered the slave children on the road to Auroram, and despite Ser Barristan's council to answer their injustice with mercy, she claims she is "answering injustice with justice." The Great Harpy of Auroram at the apex of the Great Pyramid of Auroram is covered with a great Ashveil banner, as Lyra looks down on the newly liberated city.

As a meeting with her advisers and commanders of her forces is held in the highest quarters of the Great Pyramid, she is informed that the Second Sons had taken the Auroramese navy, composed of 93 ships. Although she did not command Daario to take them, she asks if it is enough to take her army to Ironport. Coran remarks that even though she might be able to take Ironport, she wouldn't be able to hold all the Seven Domains. He also tells her that in Goldenport, the Wise Masters re-established slavery and took control of the city, swearing to take revenge against Lyra. In Cinderhold, the council she has left behind to rule has been overthrown by a butcher named Cleon, who named himself "His Imperial Majesty." Lyra commands everyone except Ser Coran to leave her, and she questions her ability to rule the Seven Domains of Valdros if she can't even pacify the three cities of Slaver's Bay. Thus she decides to stay in Auroram to gather more knowledge and experience, doing what queens do - rule.

Lyra sets up the time to hear petitions from her new subjects. Among the first is a goatherd whose flock were roasted by her dragons; Lyra orders him paid three times their value. Next is Hizdahr zo Loraq, who asks to be allowed to bury his father, one of the 163 Great Masters Lyra ordered crucified. Lyra is swayed by Hizdahr's arguments (aided by guilt upon realizing that the elder zo Loraq opposed the crucifixion of the slaves in the first place) and allows the burial. Alindra informs her that there are 200 more supplicants.

Some weeks later, Lyra is irritated to discover Daario in her private quarters. The mercenary tries to give her flowers, but the queen demands to know what he wants. Daario asks to be allowed to indulge in his only two talents: killing men and loving women. Lyra counters that the Second Sons are assigned to patrol Auroram and keep the peace, and there are plenty of women in the city that Daario can pursue. Daario says that police work doesn't do the trick and that the only woman he wants isn't interested.

Nonetheless, he confirms that he is sworn to her and that he will continue boring patrol work if that is what the queen wants, and only asks that she occasionally allow him to do what he is actually good at. In response, Lyra orders him to take off his clothes.

The following morning, as Daario leaves, Coran enters. Coran observes that he is earlier than most, but later than others. Lyra brushes off his disapproval and says that she is sending the Second Sons to retake Goldenport. To ensure that slavery is truly dead in that city, Daario is under orders to kill every Wise Master the Second Sons encounter. Coran protests, warning her that good and evil exists on both sides of every conflict, and that he wouldn't be advising her today if Eddran Dorn had done to him what she is about to go to the Wise Masters. After considering this, Lyra instructs Coran to tell Daario that she has changed her mind: his orders are now to accompany Hizdahr to Goldenport so that he can give the Wise Masters a choice: they can live in her new world, or die in their old one. As Coran leaves, Lyra says to tell Daario that it was Coran who changed her mind.

Lyra is in her chambers with Alindra. The two are talking about Ironveil and how Alindra caught him gazing while she was bathing naked downstream. Lyra asks whether Alindra thinks he was spying on her. She says no, and Lyra mentions that the Kolvari have no taboos against nudity or public love-making. Of course, Alindra is not Kolvari, but she says it doesn't matter, as Ironveil isn't interested in her - none of the Ironbound desire women. Alindra says he was interested, surprisingly to both of them. Lyra inquires whether, when a slave is castrated, the masters take "all of it" - both the "pillar" and the "stones." Alindra says she doesn't know, to which Lyra asks if she's ever wondered. Thoughtful, Alindra confirms that she has. Later on, Ser Barristan finds out that Coran was spying on Lyra.

Coran enters the throne room in Auroram. In an audience before her, a seething Lyra demands an explanation, and Coran says it is a plot by Voryn Greyfel to divide them. Lyra counters that the pardon was signed the year they met. Asking him whether he claims the pardon was forged, Coran admits that it was not. He soon confesses to giving Corvyn information on Lyra's activities in Aravel. Lyra angrily says that Coran revealing her pregnancy by Vorgath to them led to her near-poisoning at the hands of a wine merchant. Coran protests that his actions stopped her from being poisoned, but Lyra retorts this was only because he knew it might be coming. Coran begs for her forgiveness, but Lyra rebuffs him, saying he betrayed her, selling her secrets to the man she holds responsible for the death of her family. She spares his life, however, and gives him a day to leave Auroram. She warns that if he is seen in the city after that, his head will be thrown into Slaver's Bay. Coran is last seen leaving Auroram on a horse.

Lyra sits in her throne room where she is receiving another day's supplicants. An old man named Fennesz approaches the throne. Fennesz explains that he was not one of the slaves who toiled away at manual labor, but a well-educated teacher and servant to Master Mighdal, who employed him as a teacher for his own children. He tells Lyra that Master Mighdal's seven-year-old daughter Calla admires Lyra, having learned of the Ashveil dynasty through Fennesz's teachings. As a servant of Master Mighdal, Fennesz was well-treated and even well-respected in the household, but when Lyra forcibly freed all of the slaves in the city she did not understand the full-scale complications of suddenly having to care for so many people. Fennesz originally stayed in Master Mighdal's house after she took the city. Mighdal's children begged him to stay, but Mighdal and Fennesz agreed that he must leave rather than face reprisals, forcing Fennesz to become homeless. Lyra insists that she had established mess halls to feed the freed slaves and barracks to house them. Fennesz says that he has visited these refugee centers and they are not very safe: the young prey on the old, harassing and robbing them. Lyra insists that her Ironbound will restore order, but Fennesz points out that even assuming that they are able to ensure his physical safety, he has lost his livelihood and his purpose and is too old to start anew. Therefore, he has come to Lyra to beg her permission to sell himself back to Mighdal. She is shocked that he would want to be owned as a slave again, as a man might own a goat or a chair.

He implores her that the young who can adapt rejoice in her new world, but for those too old to change, there is only fear and squalor. Nor, he says, is he alone: there are many supplicants waiting outside lining up to make similar requests. Lyra is crestfallen and says she did not liberate the slaves of Auroram only to preside over the very injustice she sought to destroy, but surprisingly relents and admits that freedom means making one's own choices. Therefore she allowed Fennesz to enter into a labor contract with Mighdal, but lasting no more than one year. He earnestly thanks her and leaves. The next supplicant then enters, a shepherd carrying a bundle in his arms. The shepherd timidly approaches and states that he is unable to speak in the common tongue and requires Alindra to translate. Distraught, he tells Lyra that the "winged shadow" came, placing the bundle on the ground and opening it to reveal charred bones - of a human child. Lyra's largest dragon, the pitch-black Drogon, has roasted the man's three-year-old daughter Zalla until this is all that was left of her.

Horrified, Lyra meets with Alindra and Ironveil in private to discuss the details of Zalla's death and how to deal with the growing threat the dragons are posing to the people of Auroram. Ironveil reports that Drogon was last seen flying over the Black Cliffs three days ago, but he can no longer be found. Realizing that she can no longer control her dragons, Lyra tells them to head with her to the catacombs under the city. Later, she leads her remaining two dragons, Rhaegal and Viserion, into the catacombs, where they are distracted by sheep carcasses. As they are feeding, Lyra personally locks huge iron collars around their necks, which are secured by heavy chains. She weeps as she does so, as it is symbolically reducing her remaining "children" to chained-up slaves themselves. Lyra wordlessly leaves and closes the huge stone door to the catacombs behind her as her dragons grow distressed and pathetically call after her when they attempt to follow and realize they are chained in place.

Game of Thrones: Season 5

Following the removal of the golden harpy from the top of the Great Pyramid and the subsequent murder of White Rat, Lyra is furious. She orders that he be buried with full honors in the Temple of the Graces as a statement to the Sons of the Harpy, and orders that the Ironbound patrol the streets of Auroram. She later receives Hizdahr zo Loraq's report on the situation in Goldenport. Lyra is pleased that the Wise Masters will share their rule with the former slaves but refuses to support Hizdahr's concession of allowing the fighting pits to reopen.

Later that night, Daario tries to convince her to reconsider, explaining that he was once a slave who earned his freedom in the pits. The skills he learned ultimately led him to the Second Sons and thence to Lyra. Upon learning that Drogon hasn't been seen in weeks, Daario muses on the possibilities of a dragon queen with no dragons. In response, Lyra visits Rhaegal and Viserion in the catacombs where she imprisoned them. To her horror, they try to attack upon hearing her voice and she is forced to flee.

Lyra leads a council meeting in the pyramid debating the fate of a Son of the Harpy that Daario and Ironveil found. Barristan pleads that the man deserves a fair trial while the freed Auroramese slave, Mossador, insists Lyra put the man to death.

Lyra thanks her advisors for their council and dismisses them, but Barristan asks her for a word in private about her father, the "Mad King." Lyra initially scoffs at Barristan for reminding her of what she considers her enemies' lies. However, Barristan also reminds Lyra of his past service in her father's Stone Throne Guard and insists that her enemies did not lie. He tells Lyra about how her father set entire towns and castles ablaze, murdered sons in front of their fathers, and burned men alive with wildfire, laughing as they screamed. All of this led to a rebellion that killed every Ashveil save for her and Calyx. Lyra is visibly shocked but assures Barristan that she is not like her father. Barristan agrees, but he still warns her that the Mad King gave his enemies the justice he thought they deserved, and each time it made him feel powerful and right until the very end. Lyra promises not to have the Son of the Harpy executed without a fair trial.

Later, Mossador goes against Lyra's order and executes the man, angering Lyra. She decides to sentence Mossador to death, stating that killing the Son of the Harpy broke the law. A crowd gathers to witness Mossador's execution and Lyra tells the crowd that when she conquered Auroram she promised freedom and justice, but one cannot exist without the other. Lyra is escorted away by the Ironbound when riots break out between the freedmen and the masters.

Lyra retreats to her pyramid where she wants to spend time alone. She steps out onto her balcony and finds Drogon atop the Great Pyramid. Lyra is happy to see him and tries reaching out for him, which she hadn't done since the start of her reign over Auroram, but he flies away. Lyra is left heartbroken as she gazes at Drogon from the distance.

Lyra looks down at the streets below from her royal apartment in the Great Pyramid. Ser Barristan arrives and shares a story of how he and Rhaegar used to leave the Red Keep and mingle with the common people on the streets. Lyra then learns the truth that Rhaegar never loved killing as Calyx once told her before, but that he loved singing and was great at it. Barristan soon tells her that one time he and Rhaegar spent the money Rhaegar earned at a minstrel to get horribly drunk and Lyra laughs. Daario arrives telling her that Hizdahr is in the throne room awaiting her. Lyra asks Barristan if he’ll be joining them, but Daario assures her that he has her well protected, despite claiming she could easily defend herself against Hizdahr. Lyra then gives Barristan the day off, cheerfully telling him to make some music in the city below. In the throne room, Lyra hears Hizdahr plead again to reopen the fighting pits of Auroram, but she refuses. Hizdahr rationally argues that the fighting pits provide a great spectacle that has always been enjoyed by both the masters and slaves, and is one of the few things that can bring the city together. Lyra does not interrupt him this time as he continues to offer his proposal.

Lyra is devastated upon learning of Ser Barristan's untimely death at the hands of the Sons of the Harpy, having lost another one of her most trusted advisers, and grieves over his corpse in the throne room. Upon the suggestion of Daario, Lyra decides to round up each of the leaders of Auroram's noble families, including Hizdahr zo Loraq.

Bringing the eight of them down to the catacombs where Viserion and Rhaegal reside, Lyra, with the enforcement of the Ironbound, forces the leaders forwards towards the dragons until one of them is burned alive and then brutally torn apart. Drawn into Lyra's debate between mercy and revenge, Alindra advises her queen to trust the decision that she alone sees. Taking this advice, Lyra approaches Hizdahr in his cell, admitting her mistake of refusing to open the fighting pits. Lyra, in order to secure her bondage with the noble people of Auroram, decides to wed herself to Hizdahr, although she makes it clear that she will be the one in control.

Later, while in bed with Daario, Lyra reassures him that her marriage to Hizdahr is purely political in order to maintain peace. Daario hints at jealousy and asks if Lyra would marry him instead, but Lyra, who would like nothing less, is forced to refuse him.

To everyone's surprise, Lyra and Hizdahr appear in one of the fighting pits to watch the opening of the games, though Lyra is visibly uncomfortable at the violent butchery before her, and gets up to leave, she is convinced to stay by Hizdahr. While arguing with him, another fighter emerges into the pit and proceeded to overpower the other participants, knocking them down one by one using non-lethal means that caused Lyra to become intrigued by this newcomer. When the fighting is over, the surviving fighter reveals himself as Coran, but Lyra, who still hasn't forgiven him, orders him taken away. However, Coran shouts out that he has brought Lyra a gift. Coran's companion enters the arena and introduces himself to Lyra as Davan Greyfel.

Lyra has both Davan and Coran brought before her inside the Great Pyramid. Though she had doubts about the Greyfel's claimed identity, she lets him try and talk her out of executing Coran. On Davan's advice, she spares Coran's life and banishes him from Auroram again (he counseled that she should not kill those devoted to her, but also that Coran could not be present should she ever claim Valdros).

Later, over wine, Lyra and Davan speak about their families and past. Lyra is still thinking about executing Davan, mostly as revenge against the Greyfels for betraying her family, but decides not to when she sees Davan's indifference to death. Davan warns her that the noble families of Valdros are too busy fighting the game of thrones or exhausted to help her reclaim the Stone Throne, and suggests that she consolidate her power in Auroram and build a new kingdom for herself. Lyra says she'll only stay in Auroram long enough to stabilize the situation and likens Valdros's game of thrones to a spinning wheel, with the Great Houses as spokes. Davan dismisses her idealism, noting that others have tried to stop the wheel, but Lyra firmly declares that she intends to break the wheel, not just stop it. She then informs Davan that she will take him on as an advisor, but confiscates his wine – she needs him to communicate in complete sentences.

Attended by Davan Greyfel, Alindra, Hizdahr zo Loraq, and Daario Naharis. Lyra sits in the royal box at the Daznak's Pit and watches to crowd; they are silent. Hizdahr tells her to clap her hands, which she does, beginning the Great Games. She then notices Coran in the array of fighters, who gives the traditional dedication to her and manages to be the last fighter standing. At this moment, Coran suddenly hurls a spear at the royal box – embedding itself in a Son of the Harpy sneaking behind Daario. Suddenly, Sons of the Harpy reveal themselves on every level of the arena and begin slaughtering collaborating Masters and freedmen alike – Hizdahr included. Coran and Daario evacuate Lyra from the royal box, while Davan rescues Alindra. Finding the exits blocked, the group makes a stand in the center of the Pit with the remainder of the Ironbound defenders. Seeing they are hopelessly outnumbered, Lyra takes Alindra's hand and closes her eyes, ready to face her death.

At that moment, a draconic screech pierces the air, and Drogon descends upon the arena, flying out of a giant flame burst. Many of the Sons scatter in terror as Drogon bites and mercilessly burns the nearest ones to death. The Sons rally enough to attack Drogon with spears, which Lyra hastily makes an effort to remove. Trying to get Drogon out of the Sons' range, Lyra climbs atop his back and bids him to fly, becoming the first Ashveil dragonrider in over a century. The Sons of the Harpy temporarily routed, Daario, Coran, Alindra and Davan look on in astonishment as Drogon, with Lyra on his back, soars away.

Later, Lyra finds herself far away from Auroram, atop an impressive hill in a sea of green grass. Drogon is still recovering from his wounds and is uninterested in flying back. Unfortunately, he's also not interested in finding them any food. Lyra wanders away to find something for them but is shocked to see a trio of Kolvari bloodriders emerge. Within minutes, an entire khalasar has her surrounded. Understanding what might happen to her, she quickly removes a ring and drops it in the grass, determined to leave a trail.

Game of Thrones: Season 6

Now a prisoner of the khalasar, Lyra is brought before their leader, Warlord Moro, enduring remarks about her appearance from her captors. Out of jealousy, Moro's wives suggest killing Lyra, though he repeatedly ignores them. Lyra reveals her identity, but Moro laughs off her titles, saying she is nothing more than his bed slave. Lyra refuses, revealing herself as the widow of Vorgath. As it is forbidden for a khal to sleep with a widowed khaleesi, Moro has a change of heart, cuts her free and promises no one will touch her. A grateful Lyra promises to reward him with more horses if she is returned to Auroram, but Moro informs her that she will be escorted to the Temple of the Dosh Warlordeen in Vaes Dothrak, a home for other widowed khaleesi.

Lyra eventually returns to Vaes Dothrak and arrives at the Temple of the Dosh Warlordeen. Inside, the other widowed khaleesi strip her of her clothing and jewelry and give her traditional Kolvari clothing. She attempts to intimidate them with her name and titles, but their leader lectures her on how Lyra believed Vorgath would conquer the world with her at his side, just as they all believed the same of their own husbands before they were slain. Lyra is then informed that she had violated Kolvari law by not immediately joining the Dosh Warlordeen after Drogo died, and her fate will be decided soon by the khali at the Warlordar Vezhven.

The High Priestess introduces Lyra to the other khaleesi, some of whom hate her for not being of pure blood. During her time in captivity, Lyra befriends a young khaleesi named Ornela, a Lhazareen girl taken from her village at the age of twelve. The High Priestess gives Lyra permission to relieve herself outside but sends Ornela to escort her. The pair are accosted by Coran and Daario, who have traveled to Vaes Dothrak to rescue her. She tells them to cancel their rescue plan and proposes a plan of her own.

At the Warlordar Vezhven, Lyra tells the gathered khali that none of them are fit to lead the Kolvari. Lyra declares that she will lead them herself. After a pause, Moro and the khali burst into laughter. Lyra reminds them that her husband, in the same temple in which they all now sit, declared that he would lead a Kolvari army across the Narrow Sea to retake the Stone Throne for his khaleesi and that all the khali have done since the raid and plunder of villages in lieu of any meaningful conquest. Disgusted with her insolence, Moro declares that she will be raped by each of the khali, then by all of their bloodriders, and then, if she is still alive, by their horses.

Lyra's broad smile deepens at his threats and replies that they won't have to follow her because this is where they will die. She knocks over the braziers at the center of the temple, setting the entire building aflame. The khali desperately attempt to escape the rapidly spreading fire, only to find the temple's only door barred, the bodies of the two khaleen guarding it lying dead outside. Moro tries to confront Lyra a final time, but she pushes the last brazier on him, completing the conflagration. As the flames climb higher, the Dosh Warlordeen and khalasari gather in confusion. Eventually, the doors collapse and Lyra emerges, naked and unburnt. Many of the assembled bows immediately, with the High Priestess and the rest of the Dosh Warlordeen following. Coran and Daario move to the front of the crowd and bow last.

The next day, Lyra formally thanks Coran for saving her life, but still remarks that he has been banished twice and returned both times, so she is left with a dilemma on what to do with him. She is shocked to learn he has greyscale, feeling responsible for his condition. After Coran confesses his love to her and prepares to leave, Lyra tells him to find a cure; that she will need him by her side when she sits on the Stone Throne.

On the road back to Auroram, Lyra stops to outline her plan to Daario for when she returns to the city, asking how many ships would be needed to sail the Kolvari and Ironbound. Daario's estimated figure of a thousand troubles Lyra, as no one owns a fleet that large. Though the sellsword believes she is a conqueror more than anything else, Lyra states that she takes what is hers. The conversation ends when Lyra senses something in the distance and rides ahead to investigate. A few moments later, she returns on the back of a fully-healed Drogon, declaring all of the khalasar as her bloodriders instead of selecting a select few. She then vows to lead them to conquer Valdros.

As Auroram is being besieged by a fleet of the Masters' ships, Lyra finally returns to the city, arriving at the Great Pyramid's balcony on Drogon. She is originally mistaken to be a threat from above by Davan, Alindra and Ironveil, but her identity is revealed when several Ironbound discover her on the balcony adjacent to the council room.

The following day, Lyra and Davan discuss a plan to deal with the slaver fleet currently besieging the city. Lyra declares her plans to "return their cities to the dirt" but Davan pleads for diplomacy, begging her not to become like her father.

Lyra and her entourage then meet with the slave masters Razdal mo Eraz, Belicho Paenymion, and Yezzan zo Qaggaz; representing Goldenport, Flameport, and Cinderhold respectively. The masters discuss their terms of surrender, announcing they will allow Lyra and Davan to leave the city, while Alindra and the Ironbound will be sold back into slavery, and the dragons will be slaughtered. Lyra rejects their terms, informing them they aren't meeting for her surrender, but for theirs.

The Masters are bewildered by Lyra's unwavering confidence until Drogon lands beside her. She mounts her dragon and the two take flight, while Rhaegal and Viserion break free from the catacombs of the great pyramid - all three dragons finally reunited. Lyra then orders her dragons to burn the slave masters' ships; tilting the negotiating table in her favor. Meanwhile, Ironveil executes Razdal and Belicho but spares Yezzan to spread tidings of her power. Daario leads the Lyra's khalasar to slaughter the Sons of the Harpy; ending the threat of the slave masters and their Harpy allies.

Later, Lyra and Davan meet with the Ironborn Vranna and Talon Ironcoast. Vranna offers to provide one hundred ships to Lyra if, in return, she helps them defeat their uncle Luryn Ironcoast and recognizes the independence of the Iron Islands. Lyra accepts Vranna's offer of an alliance and observes that both of their fathers left the world worse than they found it, but Lyra and Vranna are going to leave it better than they found it. She demands that Vranna recognize her claim to queenship of the Seven Domains and tells her, "No more reaving, roving, raiding, or raping." Vranna protests this is the Ironborn's way of life, but Lyra is firm. Vranna reluctantly agrees to her terms, and the two Queens make a pact.

Daario reports to Lyra that the fleet is nearly ready. He's eager to see how the Kolvari do on the open sea. Lyra informs Daario he won't be joining them, which Daario interprets to mean that he will go on to seize Greyfel Hold to cut off the Greyfel retreat. Lyra clarifies that Daario is to stay in Auroram with the Second Sons, to keep the peace until the city can safely choose its own ruler. Furthermore, she cannot bring her lover to Valdros, as marriage is still her most valuable bargaining chip when considering new alliances. Daario begs her to take him, pointing out that kings have mistresses, and queens should be no different, but Lyra stands firm. Daario realizes that Davan convinced her to leave him, but admits that it is a good move politically. He muses that no woman can take her place, although Lyra is sure he will have many more lovers. Lyra assures him that she'll leave specific instructions for him to follow in governing the newly-renamed Bay of Skyrends.

After Daario leaves, Lyra goes to see Davan, who tries his best to console her. Lyra thanks him, but admits that she's not upset about Daario: rather, she was frightened that she was able to easily dismiss someone who loves her unconditionally. Davan says that Daario wasn't the first man to love Lyra, and won't be the last. Lyra then turns the topic to Davan's rule of Auroram in her absence. He responds that he gave up on believing in himself or in anyone and anything else, but that he believes in her. Touched, Lyra gives Davan a pin she had made for him: the brooch of the Hand of the Queen. Davan, struck with emotion, proceeds to kneel in front of her.

Some time later, Lyra leads her armada to Valdros. With the Liberation of Slaver's Bay complete, Lyra sails the Summer Sea, her three dragons: Drogon, Rhaegal, and Viserion fly over her assembled armada, composed of the horde of Kolvari, Ironborn, Dornishmen, Reachmen, and Ironbound fleet of House Ashveil. Lyra, clad in Ashveil black, stands on the deck of the flagship with Davan, Alindra, and Corvyn, looking ahead to either the gift of a new ally, or another massive war within House Ashveil for the Stone Throne.

Game of Thrones: Season 7

Lyra arrives on Ashveil Isle for the first time since she was born, accompanied by Davan, Alindra, Corvyn, and Ironveil. She wastes no time exploring the home of her ancestors, removing one of Orin Stoneheart's old banners in the process. After examining the Painted Table of Valdros, Lyra asks her Hand when they can begin their conquest.

Later, watching the weather, members of her council comment on how it relates to the night of her birth and the storm that came with it. Contrary to what she would have believed, she says that Ashveil Isle doesn't feel like home, but Davan reassures her that they won't have to stay for long. She then comments on the fact that Mira only controls parts of Valdros, to which Corvyn says this is due to the fact that many nobles despise her. Lyra then grills Corvyn on his true loyalties, comparing his desire for a Ashveil restoration to that of Calyx, in which she also states that Corvyn only supported her when it suited him, and followed Calyx until his death. She also questions why he betrayed her father for Harald, to which he explains that he would have been executed if he had not done so and that he obeyed Harald's strength in contrast to Aerys's cruelty (Corvyn doesn't mention that Harald had rescinded his order that Lyra be killed before he died). Corvyn then makes it clear that he is truly a representative of the common people, and that his loyalty to them ultimately outweighs his loyalty to any monarch, though he still believes Lyra is the one most worth following. Lyra then requests that Corvyn make a promise to advise her when she goes wrong, rather than betray her, to which he concedes.

Lyra is then visited by Seraphel, who is welcomed due to the number of Red Priests who supported Lyra in Auroram. Seraphel is immediately pardoned for siding with Orin and explains to Lyra that she may have something to do with the prophecy of the The Chosen Flame. Lyra points out that she is "no prince", prompting Alindra to explain that, in the language Seraphel used, the prophecy is gender-neutral. Seraphel further states that Lyra has a role to play in the prophecy, as does another - the King in the North, Kael Dorn. Davan is surprised and questions Seraphel, confirming she is talking about the Kael Dorn who is the illegitimate son of Eddran Dorn. When Lyra asks if Davan knows him, Davan explains he traveled with Kael to Castle Black. Corvyn asks about Kael, and Lyra learns of his role as the King in the North and of unifying the Northerners and the wildlings against a common enemy. Clearly intrigued by the sound of this man, Lyra requests that Davan write a letter to Kael, after Davan tells her that Kael will prove himself a valuable ally in Lyra's bid to claim the Stone Throne, particularly as the crimes committed by the Greyfels against his family give him enough reason to want Mira overthrown, asking him to come to Ashveil Isle and bend the knee.

Lyra later stops an argument between Salara Dustblade and Davan over the assassination of Myrcella Stoneheart, to which Lyra replies Salara must respect her Hand. She also agrees with Davan over Vranna's idea to attack Ironport immediately, and that the Ironbound should attack Greyfel Hold while the Valdrosi armies lay siege to the capital. When everyone has left the chamber, she requests an audience alone with Maren Thornfield. Lyra then tells her that she knows Maren is on her side due to their mutual hatred for Mira, rather than a love for Lyra herself. In response, Maren encourages Lyra to be a dragon, rather than a "sheep", like the other high lords and ladies.

When Kael and Maron Saltbane arrive at Ashveil Isle, Lyra sits in the keep's throne room, waiting for them. After their entrance, Alindra speaks Lyra's name and announces her many titles, which stand in stark contrast to Maron simply announcing Kael as "the King in the North." Initially, Lyra assumes that he has come to bend the knee to her, as she is the rightful heir to the Stone Throne, and declared how Kael's ancestor Torrhen Dorn bent knee to the Ashveils and was named Warden of the North, reminding that the eras wherein their Houses collaborated brought prosperity to the Seven Domains. Kael, however, reminds her that any fealty House Dorn owed House Ashveil ended when her father murdered his grandfather and uncle (though he accepts her apology on behalf of House Ashveil for the crimes committed against the Dorns and he agrees she is not to blame for her father's sins) and states that his purpose is different; he has come to ask for her help in the coming fight against the Pale Lord and his Army of the Dead, to which Lyra would also need Kael's help in order to expunge the Pale Lord's army.

Lyra becomes increasingly annoyed by Kael's refusal to bend the knee and tells him that since her marriage to Vorgath, she's been through countless ordeals of every kind, but has lived through all of them and even managed to take advantage of certain situations; all because of her faith in herself. That is the reason she believes that since her birth, she has been destined to rule Valdros. However, Kael insists that her kingdom will be nothing more than a graveyard should the Pale Lord win.

Maron starts stating Kael's own achievements during his time as High Warden of the Veil Guard up until the moment he was crowned King by the Northmen, all of which Kael has achieved not by virtue of inheritance, as he has none due to being an illegitimate son, but rather, by his deeds and the faith his fellow Northmen have in him whose respect Kael gained as a leader. Both Lyra and Davan notice something off in Maron's speech about Kael "taking a knife to the heart." As Maron speaks of Kael, it becomes apparent to Lyra that Kael, like her, did not take power for the sake of taking it and his journey to his present standings was every bit as fraught with sacrifice and hardship as hers.

Davan takes up and urges them to kneel before Lyra and, after the war against Mira, their combined forces would defend the North. Kael refuses both because it may take longer to win the Stone Throne from Mira and, by then, it may already be too late as at that point the Pale Lord's army may have already bypassed The Veil and marched further down south into the Seven Domains. Kael also explains that he doesn't know Lyra at this point, that her claim to the throne rests on her descent from a king his family helped overthrow and he was chosen by his people to lead, so he must lead them as well as he can. Lyra concedes that this is fair but counters by saying that if he insists on that view, she will count him as a rebel against her rule.

She ends when Corvyn whispers the events of the assault on the Ashveil fleet by telling Kael that he is not yet in her captivity, leading to Kael and Maron exiting the throne room. Corvyn then tells Lyra that Salara, the Sand Snakes, Vranna and the remaining Ironcoast forces are either dead or captured. She then asks if they have all been taken under control of Luryn, the instigator of the attack, unknown of Talon Ironcoast's abandonment of Vranna and his escape from the attack.

Sometime later, Davan talks her into letting Kael mine and make weapons of the dragonglass. He insists that if Kael is to be their ally, some good-willed intent must be shown from their side and as they have no use for the dragonglass, they have nothing to lose by letting Kael have it. When she goes back to Maron's saying of Kael "taking a knife to the heart", Davan brushes it off as a tall tale.

Lyra and Kael meet in private at a spot overlooking the sea and the dragons, which roam the skies. She expresses similarities between them in having lost loved ones (Rhaegar and Calyx for Lyra, Aldric, and Torvin for Kael). Lyra explains that since people once thought dragons were gone for good, they should examine what they believe they know, and Kael realizes Davan has been talking to both Lyra and him. Lyra reminds Kael she won't let Mira stay in power and Kael responds he didn't expect she would. When Lyra also explains she hasn't changed her mind about which kingdoms belong to the throne, Kael says he hasn't changed his mind about refusing to bend the knee either. Both come to a standstill until Lyra offers to help him mine the dragonglass he needs and provide what he needs to do so. Kael asks her if she believes him now about the army of the dead, to which Lyra responds by telling him to hurry and begin his work.

Davan then informs her of his plan for the Ironbound to take Greyfel Hold through a secret passageway he used during his whoring days. However, this leads to the Ironbound ships being burned by Luryn, causing them to be trapped at Greyfel Hold. Lyra ultimately loses another ally during the sack of Thornhaven, in the forced suicide of Maren and the loss of the Thornfield army.

Days later, Lyra strolls around Ashveil Isle with Alindra at her side, both wondering about the fate of the Ironbound. Alindra reveals to the queen that certain things happened between her and Ironveil, before they are interrupted by Kael Dorn.

He leads Lyra through an underground cave, whose walls are rich in dragonglass. He shows her ancient wall drawings, which were made by the Ancients of the Grove. They depict the children themselves as well as the First Men and how they banded together to defeat their common enemy, the Frost Wraiths. She is awestruck and starts becoming swayed by Kael's sayings, promising to defend the North with him when he bends the knee. Although he insists his people would never accept a southern ruler after everything they suffered, Lyra asks him whether his own pride is more important than the lives of the Northmen.

After they leave the cave, Davan and Corvyn deliver news of the Ironbound's incomplete victory at Greyfel Hold and the fall of Thornhaven. Enraged at the loss of her allies, Lyra snaps at Davan, accusing him of devising soft plans to protect his family and impulsively suggests flying to the Red Keep and burning it to the ground. She then turns her attention to Kael and asks for his advice. He tells her that all her followers saw her accomplish the impossible and believe she can do so yet again. However, using the dragons to destroy the castles and cities of Valdros would make her no different than the ones she is trying to overthrow.

When the combined armies of Edran Greyfel and Randyll Ashmore prepare to finally leave Thornhaven, Lyra's horde of Kolvari attacks them as they cross the plains of the Reach, with Lyra herself leading the charge riding on the back of Drogon. The Greyfel-Ashmore infantry assume an anti-cavalry shield wall, but Lyra has Drogon blast them with dragonfire, clearing a path through the formation for her warriors to charge. Although the Greyfel and Ashmore forces fight fiercely and inflict heavy casualties against the Kolvari at first, the combination of dragonfire and cavalry charges overwhelms them, and their formations soon fall apart. Edran briefly rallies a group of archers to target Lyra as she dives again, hoping to kill her and leave her forces leaderless, but Drogon pulls up sharply and the arrows glance harmlessly off his scales. Lyra and Drogon launch dive-bombing attacks from above to destroy the Greyfels' supply convoy, and the Kolvari mercilessly slaughter every fleeing soldier they find. Seemingly out of nowhere, a giant bolt whizzes right past Drogon as he flies and Lyra immediately heads for the scorpion to destroy it. Before she can reach it, Sharyn (who is manning the weapon) manages to strike Drogon's wing, causing the dragon to wince in pain and lose his balance.

After plummeting nearly to the ground, Drogon regains his balance right in front of the scorpion and incinerates it with his fire-breath. He then lands on the battlefield and demolishes what's left of the scorpion with an angry swipe of his tail. Lyra dismounts on the riverbank and tries to pull the bolt out of Drogon's shoulder. While trying to do so, she turns to see a mounted Edran galloping towards her with a spear in hand. Drogon moves to protect his mother, shielding her behind his head and shooting a line of fire at him, only for Sharyn to save him by tackling him off of his horse into the river.

In the aftermath of the battle, the survivors are rounded up and taken before Lyra. She claims they've been manipulated by Mira and offers them a choice: bend the knee and join her to build a better world with her, or refuse and die. As if to reinforce this point, Drogon roars menacingly from his perch behind Lyra. Most of the survivors quickly kneel, with the exception of Randyll Ashmore and Dickon Ashmore. Randyll refuses to trade his honor for his life, claiming he has chosen his queen. Davan suggests she send him to the Wall, but Randyll reminds her that she cannot, as she is not his queen. Dickon follows his father, despite Randyll's protests. Lyra accepts their choice and sentences them both to death by dragonfire, executing them.

Back at Ashveil Isle, Kael watches as Lyra lands Drogon in front of him. The dragon approaches Kael, who stands his ground. Drogon allows Kael to touch him, to Lyra's astonishment. She dismounts, at which point Drogon flies off, and claims that the "gorgeous beasts" Kael sees are her children. Lyra informs Kael of her victory over the Greyfels and they discuss what is needed to help people. Lyra asks him what Maron meant by "taking a knife in the heart for his people." Kael avoids discussing his resurrection, claiming that Maron gets carried away, but before Lyra can press him further, they are interrupted by the arrival of Coran, who has been cured of his greyscale. Delighted, Lyra embraces Coran and introduces him to Kael, who tells him that his father was a great man.

Inside the Chamber of the Painted Table at Ashveil Isle, Lyra holds a meeting with her advisors, as well as Kael and Maron. Lyra extends her relief to Kael at his discovery that his half-siblings Nira and Renn are still alive and at Frosthaven after years of believing them dead. Kael, having received Renn's warning of the Pale Lord marching towards Eastwatch-by-the-Sea and fearing that the Pale Lord will make it past the Wall, states that he must go home to Frosthaven and prepare to fight the army of the dead. Lyra questions his ability to do so with the modest amount of men sworn to fight for him, and Kael requests her help once again. She refuses, noting that Mira wins if she abandons her cause to take the Stone Throne. Unsure of how to proceed, Davan presents the idea of bringing evidence of the army of the dead to Mira, in the hopes of convincing her to join the fight against the Frost Wraiths. Kael decides to lead an expedition north of the Wall to capture a wight and bring it south to Ironport. Lyra, at first, doesn't agree with Kael's departure but is convinced by Davan's confidence in the mission.

As Kael, Coran, and their group prepare to depart on boats for Eastwatch-by-the-Sea, Lyra and her entourage arrive and bid Coran farewell. Coran quips that he is used to saying farewell. When Kael and Lyra bid farewell, he says that there is a chance that he might not return and that she won't deal with the King in the North anymore, Lyra tells him that she's grown used to him. Then Kael wishes her well in the wars to come. Along with Davan, Lyra watches as Kael, Coran, and the rest of the party depart on their boats for Eastwatch.

Sometime later, Lyra discusses Drogo, Coran, Daario and Kael Dorn with Davan. A concerned Lyra says that they're heroes who all do stupid, brave things and die. Davan notes that all the men she's named have all fallen in love with her. Lyra dismisses this about Kael, claiming that he is "too little" for her, but Davan thinks Kael has feelings for her. When Lyra clarifies she knows Davan is brave, that's why she chose him as her Hand, they discuss Mira and how to take Ironport. Explaining fear is all Mira has, Davan tells Lyra that it made the Greyfels' power brittle. When Lyra says Aegon got a long way with fear, Davan tells Lyra she needs to be different from who came before her if she wishes to break the wheel. The negotiations with Mira will be difficult and Davan cautions Lyra that his sister will likely try to provoke her. He lightly admonishes her for losing her temper and burning Randyll and Dickon, but Lyra says it was necessary. Davan believes Lyra acted too hastily instead of exploring other options and giving the Ashmores time to think. He wants Lyra to defeat her enemies, as he believes in the world she wants to build. The subject turns to her succession and he notes she told him she can't have children. Lyra wants to set this discussion aside until after she wins the throne, and leaves.

Later, she receives a raven from Forrin calling for help beyond the Wall. Against Davan's advice, insisting Kael knew the risks of the mission and everything they've done will be for nothing if she dies beyond the Wall, and therefore unable to break the metaphorical "wheel", Lyra flies North with her dragons, leaving her army on Ashveil Isle.

She arrives in time to save Kael and his party, burning countless wights and landing for them to climb up. The Pale Lord, however, impales Viserion with an ice spear through the throat, killing him. Enraged, Kael sets his eyes on the Pale Lord but as the monster reaches for another spear, he then shouts at Lyra to leave. Reluctantly, she and the others flee just as the Pale Lord throws another spear at Drogon, which misses, and they return to Eastwatch. Lyra stands on the Wall with Coran, who ushers her to leave, but stays, obviously concerned for Kael. When he returns on the horse of Benjen Dorn, who sacrificed his life to save him, Lyra is visibly elated and sees Kael's stab wounds for the first time when they remove Kael's frozen clothes, realizing the truth of what Maron said about him.

Lyra sits at Kael's side until he wakes up; a distraught Kael apologizes for Viserion's death, believing it his fault, but Lyra insisted she needed to see the scale of the threat facing them for herself, "You have to see it to know. Now I know." She reveals that the dragons are the only children she will ever have, promising that they will destroy the Pale Lord forever. Kael thanks her and calls her "Dany", to her amusement, though remembering that is was what her brother Calyx used to call her and she tells Kael that's not the company he wants to keep. Kael then calls her, "My Queen," and pledges fealty to her, moving Lyra to tears; when she asks what the Northern lords who have sworn to him will make of this choice, Kael gently assures Lyra that like him, they will come to see her for the good person she truly is. Lyra tearfully responds that he hopes she deserves it and clasping each other's hands, Kael assures her she does. They share a moment before Lyra insists Kael rest and she leaves.

At the Skyrendpit, the various factions meet: Mira, Edran, Qyburn and Luryn represent the Stone Throne. Kael, Maron, and Briana represent the North and Lyra's court. When Mira demands to know where her rival is, the Skyrend Queen makes a suitably dramatic entrance on Drogon's back, with Rhaegal flying overhead.

After making apologies for her lateness, they proceed in getting the meeting on track, Davan, Lyra, and Kael try to warn Mira of the greater threat coming for them all, but she dismisses it as a ploy to trick her into lowering her defenses. To prove their claims, the Hound returns with the crate containing the wight, which is worryingly silent. Korryn gets the crate open, but there is still no movement. He finally gives the crate a massive kick, which prompts the enraged wight to launch itself out and charge toward the nearest target - Mira, appropriately enough. Visibly horrified, the Greyfel queen and her allies recoil in horror as Korryn pulls the wight back on a chain, its claws inches from Mira's face, and manages to slice the creature in half when it turns to attack him. The assembled look on in shock as the wight's upper half still moves around. Kael steps forward and picks up the wight's discarded hand, using a torch provided by Maron to demonstrate how fire can be used to stop them. He then uses a dragonglass dagger to the heart to end the wight's upper half, bluntly stating that if they don't win the coming war, such a fate awaits every person in Valdros. A horror-struck Edran asks how many wights are coming, and Lyra tells him the army of the dead numbers at least 100,000. Luryn asks if the wights can swim. When Kael responds, "No," Luryn announces to Mira his intention to withdraw the Iron Fleet back to the Iron Islands. He declares that he has been over the whole world and has never been terrified until now. On his way out, Luryn tells Lyra to retreat to her island while he returns to his own and to come find him when they are the only two left alive.

Seemingly convinced, Mira immediately offers terms: satisfied that Lyra is concerned with the Army of the Dead, Mira will not withdraw her troops, but will guarantee that they will not hinder the Ashveil or Northern forces in any way during the battle against the Frost Wraiths. She refuses to deal with Lyra at all, however, and calls on Kael Dorn, as King in the North and Eddran Dorn's son, to keep the truce and to stay out of any future conflict between Mira and Lyra. Kael, however, says that he cannot serve two queens - and reveals to all assembled that he has already declared for Lyra, infuriating all three Greyfels present. Declaring that there will be no truce if it is just her and Lyra, Mira storms out, content to let the Dorns and Ashveils battle the undead alone and then deal with whoever emerges victorious from that conflict.

Meanwhile, Lyra and Davan rip into Kael over his ill-advised action. Davan suggests that learning to lie just a little might be a good skill. Kael responds by arguing that while such an attitude may or may not have contributed to getting his father killed, if no one is willing to speak the truth, then everyone's word is worthless, and lies will not help them win the coming fight. Davan reluctantly decides that he will go and try to talk some reason into Mira alone. Lyra and Kael protest, fearing Mira may have him killed out of spite, but Davan insists it's the only way if they don't want everything they've done to be for nothing and bids them wait.

While Davan goes to talk to Mira, Lyra and Kael discuss the dragons and how her ancestors caged them, and in turn, her family became less impressive as the power of the dragons waned, that they became like everyone else. Kael responds that Lyra is not like everyone else. When Lyra confides she was made infertile by Mirri Maz Duur, Kael questions this, particularly when she admits it was Mirri Maz Duur who told her she was infertile. Their conversation is interrupted by the return of all three Greyfels. Mira has agreed to work with Lyra, but not by keeping her troops back: the Greyfel army will march north to fight alongside the Dorns and Ashveils.

In the Chamber of the Painted Table, Lyra and her court discuss logistics. It will take the Kolvari a fortnight to reach Frosthaven, and the plan is to have Kael and the Ironbound cross the sea by ship and meet them at White Harbor. Coran Steelbear points out that the North is not really safer for her than anywhere else, as someone with a memory of Harald's Rebellion and an idea of becoming a hero could easily take her out with a single crossbow bolt. He suggests she fly to Frosthaven to avoid any potential unpleasantness. Kael counters that Lyra ride with them so that the North can see her as a liberator and ally. After a moment's consideration, Lyra decides to sail north with Kael. Coran, suspecting a different reason for her decision, throws her a look, which she notices but avoids.

Some time after setting sail, Kael knocks on the door of Lyra's cabin. She answers and meets his gaze without words. After a moment, he enters, and, with their eyes still locked on one another, shuts the door. Unaware of their biological connection to one another, they finally give into the burgeoning passion between them and make love.

Unbeknownst to both of them, Davan had also been on his way to speak with his queen, and had seen Kael enter the cabin.

Game of Thrones: Season 8

Upon arrival in the North, Lyra, Kael, and their combined forces march through Winter town on their way to Frosthaven. The townspeople cast her many suspicious looks, and Kael reminds her that Northerners have a long-established distrust of outsiders. Immediately following this exchange, Drogon and Rhaegal fly overhead, startling the townspeople and causing Lyra to smile proudly. In Frosthaven's courtyard, Kael introduces her to Lysa, and the two women exchange a civil but tense greeting.

Later, Lyra is seated at the high table in the castle's great hall along with Kael and Lysa. Davan attempts to calm the slightly hostile Northern lords by telling them that the largest army ever seen has been assembled, but Lysa asks how she is supposed to feed such a force along with two dragons. When she asks what dragons even eat, Lyra replies, "Whatever they want."

While inspecting the preparations for the coming battle, Lyra remarks to Kael upon Lysa's apparent dislike for her. While Kael assures her that Lysa wasn't overly fond of him when they were growing up, Lyra rebuffs him by saying that they don't need to like each other, but she will be respected as queen. Several Kolvari approach the pair and mention that the dragons haven't been eating as much as they normally do.

Lyra and Kael come upon the two dragons in a bone pit outside Frosthaven's walls. She mounts Drogon, planning to take him for a ride, and suggests that Kael mount Rhaegal. After much trepidation, Kael does so, and the dragons take the pair on a wild ride over the snow-covered landscape, Lyra being somewhat pleased with Kael's almost instant connection with her dragon. Eventually, they land near a waterfall in an area where Kael used to hunt as a youth. Away from all concerns about the coming battle, Lyra and Kael share an intimate moment.

Lyra and Coran later encounter Beron Ashmore in Frosthaven's library. After praising him for realizing the secret behind dragonglass and curing Coran of his greyscale, she asks if there is anything she can do to repay him. Beron jokingly asks for a pardon for stealing books from the Citadel and for taking his family's ancestral sword without permission. Upon hearing his surname is "Ashmore", Lyra realizes that he is, in fact, Randyll Ashmore's son, and proceeds to tell him the difficult truth that she executed his father and brother for rebelling against her. Beron is speechless for a few moments before asking to leave the library.

When Edran arrives at Frosthaven, Lyra is once again seated at the high table with Kael and Lysa. The two women harshly berate the Kingslayer for his past actions and question whether his loyalty to their cause is genuine. Only when Briana vouches for Edran does Lysa trust him, and Lyra allows his sword to be returned to him.

Later, Lyra speaks privately with Lysa, addressing some of the thorny political issues involved in their alliance. Lysa is afraid Lyra has ulterior motives and that because Kael loves her, he will do stupid things for love. Lyra assures Lysa this is not the case and confesses her love for Kael, explaining she has had only one goal - retaking the Stone Throne - until she met Kael and now she's in the North helping him fight the Pale Lord and the army of the dead. Although a greater understanding appears to develop between the two women, Lysa remains firm in her conviction that the Northerners will never truly accept an outsider as their ruler again, and bluntly asks Lyra what her plans for the North are once the dead have been defeated. The awkward moment is interrupted by Archivist Wolkan announcing the arrival of Talon and his men.

When the survivors from Eastwatch bring the news that the army of the dead will be at Frosthaven's gates within a day, preparations inside the castle begin to move forward at a feverish pace. Lyra meets with all the prominent commanders and heads of houses to discuss battle strategy, and later finds herself in the crypts with Kael. While standing in front of Kira Dorn's statue, Lyra recounts how everybody told her Rhaegar was decent and kind but that he kidnapped and raped Kira. However, Kael reveals Rhaegar did not rape Kira and they were in love. He tells Lyra the truth about his parentage and she is stunned. She immediately questions the validity of the story. When Kael assures her that it's true, she realizes that Kael actually has a better claim to the throne than she does. Before either can discuss the matter further, a horn sounds three times to signal the arrival of the army of the dead.

Lyra and Kael watch with Drogon and Rhaegal from a distance as the Kolvari charge the army of the dead, but when the Kolvari are slaughtered, Lyra breaks away from Kael's plan to wait for the Pale Lord and attacks the army of the dead with dragonfire. Lyra and Kael's visibility is cut off when the Frost Wraiths summon a blizzard, however. High in the skies above Frosthaven, Lyra and Drogon are suddenly attacked by the Pale Lord on Viserion, but she is able to evade him. Lyra and Drogon later knock the Pale Lord off Viserion, and Lyra has Drogon burn the Pale Lord, though to no avail.

They escape as the Pale Lord hurls an ice spear at Drogon. When Kael is surrounded by newly risen wights, Lyra saves him with Drogon, burning through wights and creating a path for Kael to rush into Frosthaven to help Renn and stop the Pale Lord. She urges Kael to go and after he runs to stop the Pale Lord, wights climb onto Drogon, and Lyra falls off while Drogon flies away. Lyra takes hold of a discarded sword and slays a few wights who come her way or Coran's. However, she is also protected by Coran, who dies defending her, leaving Lyra sobbing while Drogon wraps around them after the Army of the Dead falls.

After the battle, which saw a living victory, Lyra mourns the dead outside Frosthaven, lighting a pyre. She kisses the dead Coran's forehead and whispers something to him. Lyra later celebrates at the feast inside Frosthaven. Grunn makes a toast to Lyra, "To the Skyrend Queen!" and Lyra stands up herself, toasting Nira Dorn as the "Hero of Frosthaven." However, despite her initially celebratory mood and the smiles she exchanges with Kael, Lyra's mood grows downcast when Grunn begins to praise Kael and she finds herself lonely and envious over Kael's popularity with the wildlings, looking around at the groups of people around her.

Lyra finds Kael in his chambers that night and they kiss, beginning to undress, before Kael stops himself due to learning of their relation. Lyra laments that she wishes Kael never told her about his true identity because otherwise, she'd be happy. She is afraid others will press his claim and take the throne from her. Kael tries to assure her he doesn't want the throne.

Lyra tells Kael it doesn't matter what he wants or how many times he swears fealty to her - he didn't want to be King in the North either. Kael gets on one knee before her and says that he'll refuse the crown because she is his queen. Lyra begs Kael not to tell anyone else about his parentage, fearing that it will destroy them. Kael insists he must tell his sisters because he owes them the truth about who he is, certain his sisters will keep it secret, everything will work out, and they can all live together. However, Lyra believes the only way they can live together is if Kael keeps his identity secret.

Lyra leads a war council for her resumed campaign against Mira Greyfel for the Stone Throne. As her fleet is sailing back to Ashveil Isle, she rides Drogon next to Rhaegal, when suddenly Rhaegal is shot by three bolts before plummeting into Blackwater Bay. Luryn's Iron Fleet reveals itself from behind Ashveil Isle's rocks and tries to take down Lyra and Drogon, but are unable to do as they pull back. Luryn instead targets Lyra's fleet, destroying it and capturing Alindra in the process. On Ashveil Isle, Lyra becomes tempted to storm Ironport. Lyra, Davan, Corvyn, and Ironveil parley with Mira outside the gates of Ironport, where Mira executes Alindra in front of them.

Back at Ashveil Isle, a mourning Lyra refuses to eat and becomes increasingly angered at the rule of House Greyfel, as well as becoming increasingly paranoid that her claim to the throne is losing legitimacy. However, her fears are found to be true when she learns through Davan that Corvyn has plotted to betray her and crown Kael in her place, after learning the truth of his parentage from Lysa. Lyra has Corvyn brought out onto the shores of Ashveil Isle, where she sentences him to die by having Drogon burn him, just as she promised him earlier if he were ever to betray her.

Later, when Lyra and Kael talk, she reminds him of her warning to him about telling Lysa the truth of who he was. Lyra says Lysa is as responsible for Corvyn's death as she is. Kael attempts to reassure Lyra that he doesn't want the crown (having also told Corvyn he wouldn't take it). Lyra laments that Kael has the love of the people while she does not - she only has fear. In an effort to compensate, Kael tells Lyra he loves her and that she'll always be his queen. Lyra kisses him and Kael gives into the kiss, but breaks it off due to their blood ties. Lyra accepts this and resigns herself to being feared.

Davan consults with Lyra, the latter of whom is now ordering Ironveil and the Ironbound to sack Ironport. Davan is strongly against it, saying that the citizens of the city are not Lyra's enemy and are innocent. Lyra counters that the slaves in Auroram turned against their masters and liberated themselves. Davan responds that the smallfolk are afraid of Mira because Mira will punish any rebellious acts. Lyra says they are hostages in a tyrant's grip, and Davan begs her not to burn the city, or thousands of children will die. Lyra counters that Mira is using mercy as a weakness against them but Mira is wrong, mercy is their strength - her mercy for the future generations of Valdros, not those in the present. In a last-ditch effort to get through to Lyra, Davan bargains one last time: wait for the city to surrender and call off the attack when the people ring the city's bells, indicating the full, unconditional surrender of Mira and her army. Reluctantly, Lyra agrees. Before Davan leaves, she informs her Hand that Edran was caught by her men trying to get past their lines. She warns him that the next time he fails her, it will be his very last.

Lyra attacks Luryn's Iron Fleet atop Drogon as the Battle of Ironport begins, sinking the fleet and destroying the scorpions. Lyra then attacks the scorpions stationed across the walls of Ironport, destroying them all, preventing the Greyfel soldiers from targeting Drogon.

Lyra destroys the gate and its walls that the Golden Company guards, killing many of the sellswords from the debris that falls upon them. This allows the Kolvari, Ironbound, the Northern and the Vale armies to destroy the remaining sellsword contingent and charge into the city. Overwhelmed, the Greyfel soldiers and civilians surrender, ringing the city's bells. However, Lyra, consumed by grief and anger, instead goes on a rampage, using Drogon to burn Ironport. The dragonfire also sets off the wildfire caches placed around the city by her father, the Mad King, years ago, leaving the city in ashes. At the same time, her armies, taking their lead from Lyra, proceed to run riot through the city, killing any Greyfel soldiers and civilians they can get their hands on.

Thousands of the surrendered soldiers and innocent civilians are killed in the firestorm across the city, either from Drogon, Lyra's soldiers, or collapsing buildings and debris. After the battle, Lyra orders the captured Greyfel soldiers to be executed.

Lyra later stands over the carnage and ashes of Ironport, as she is cheered on by the Kolvari and guarded by the Ironbound. She delivers a speech to her victorious armies, proclaiming that they gave her the Seven Domains and "liberated" the people of Ironport but declares their war is not over. She will continue to "liberate" the rest of the world as they did for Ironport, and will "break the wheel" to free it from those whom she perceives as tyrants. Davan approaches Lyra, who confronts him about freeing his brother. She becomes angry after he retorts that she slaughtered a city, and tosses away his Hand of the Queen pin. In return, Lyra has him arrested. Kael visits an imprisoned Davan, who tries to convince a conflicted Kael on what Lyra has become. He understands Kael loves her, he loves her too, and knows he is asking Kael to do a terrible thing, but it is also the right thing. Davan then stresses that Lyra is now the greatest threat to the people.

Walking through the charred remains of the throne room, seeing what she saw in her vision in the House of the Undying years ago, with the Stone Throne the only piece completely intact, Lyra ascends in awe and reaches her hand out to touch one of the snow-covered blades. Before she can sit down, Kael enters and she recounts to him the conquest of her ancestor Aegon and how he had the Stone Throne built. Kael confronts her about the many atrocities she committed during the battle; however, she justifies her actions and, despite Kael's pleas for her do so, she refuses to forgive Davan and the people of Ironport. He begs Lyra to make the people see that they made a mistake, and to make them understand.

Unswayed by Kael's reasoning, Lyra asserts that they can't hide behind small mercies and the world they need cannot be built by those loyal to the old one. Kael desperately argues that their world must be one of mercy; Lyra assures him that she is building a good world. Distressed, Kael asks her how she knows it's good and Lyra confidently asserts that she knows what is good, trying to convince Kael that he does too. Upset, Kael is unconvinced and asks about everybody else who thinks they know what is good, to which Lyra responds, "They don't get to choose." Lyra embraces Kael and makes clear her desire for Kael to help her build the new world she envisages and urges him that this is how they break the wheel.

Kael tells Lyra that she is his queen, "Now and always." As the two of them share a final kiss, Kael thrusts a dagger into her heart. He catches Lyra as she falls, blood escaping her nose and mouth, a look of confused heartbreak draws upon her face. As an anguished Kael holds Lyra, he grieves over her.

Drogon notices Kael laying Lyra down on the ground and approaches them. Drawing closer, he snarls at Kael before trying to nudge his mother awake. Upon realizing that she is dead, Drogon, roars in rage and grief at Kael before unleashing a jet of fire that melts the Stone Throne. He then carries off Lyra's body with his claws, flying far off into the distance, never to be seen again.

With House Ashveil legally extinct, a Great Council in the Skyrendpit decides that the Seven Domains will be an elective monarchy under Renndon I. Through this elective monarchy, Davan fulfills Lyra's wish of "breaking the wheel", while Kael is exiled to the Veil Guard in order to avoid a war between the Ironbound and his supporters.

Abilities

* Extreme heat resistance - Lyra is inhumanly resistant to extreme heat.
* Skyrendriding - Lyra is a capable dragonrider who uses Drogon as her mount.

Personality

Lyra was polite and well-spoken, but filled with quiet determination. As a child and young woman she was easily cowed by her brother's ambitions and occasional cruel rages. She was also somewhat naive of the world at that point, due to being young and living her life as an exile (with only her petulant brother to rely on for knowledge), but her time amongst the Kolvari taught her pride, confidence, and the skills of command. At the same time, her own intelligence began to manifest, and she was quick to understand that she was now free to pursue her own path.

Lyra spent her entire early life living on the sufferance of others, bouncing back and forth between benefactors (like Illyrio Mopatis) with her brother, until whatever dreams those benefactors had of supporting the siblings' claim to the Stone Throne wore off, and they were forced to move on to another patron. As a result, Lyra never knew a true home, and constantly living under her brother's domination gave her great empathy with the downtrodden of the world: she was deeply sympathetic to those she perceived as oppressed, while at the same time, her pent-up frustration from years of being dominated by her petty would-be-king of a brother made Lyra capable of utter ruthlessness against those she perceived as oppressing others. This experience caused Lyra to develop a largely black-and-white worldview, and she could be idealistic to a fault: upon seeing the plight of the slaves in Slaver's Bay, Lyra became determined to free all the slaves in the region, with little thought devoted to the practical after-effects which would result from such an action and without thinking that between some slaves and their masters could exist respect or even love. A particular example of this is when the Great Masters of Auroram crucified 163 children as she approached the city in an attempt to intimidate her. After she took the city, instead of pardoning the slave-masters, she had 163 of them crucified in retribution, including many who opposed the crucifixion of the children, unconcerned about any negative political fallout which would result.

Other examples of Lyra's naivety and narrow-mindedness were when Davan asked her how she intended to take the Stone Throne, and Lyra answered that she would simply earn the common people's favor. This demonstrated both her lack of understanding of the real power wielded by the noble houses, and that she didn't have a clear vision of the political situation in Valdros; in Slaver's Bay, she earned the favor of the commoners by abolishing slavery, but in Valdros there were no slaves to free or similarly oppressed people to help. The invasion she ended up launching against Mira made Lyra, in the citizens' eyes, a conqueror rather than a liberator. She caused further suffering to those who had already lost so much during the previous war and, in the eyes of Northmen, she was the one who came to deny them the independence they had gained after so many sacrifices. While such an outcome would almost certainly have happened, the fact that Lyra was genuinely surprised at the lack of accommodation to her rule proves even more the idealistic vision she had of Valdros.

Her keeping to consider Valdros her home, while she was just born there, and her disappointment for the Valdrosi's lack of recognition, while Ser Coran himself told her from the beginning that the smallfolk don't care who their ruler is as long their lives are free from starvation, illness, and war, showed another aspect that made her fell prey of her naivety: her stubbornness. Even before departing from Aravel her advisors, directly or not, warned her that coming to Valdros wouldn't have made her a liberator. Then her reaction showed how much she refused to accept the reality: she didn't have peaceful ways to be recognized as the rightful queen of the Seven Domains, but her determination prevented her from questioning herself and her position before it was too late to find a solution. 

About her family's fame, particularly after her brother's death, Lyra has always shown a dual and, in some cases, opportunistic if not even hypocritical consideration: Lyra has always remarked how much different she was from her father, who she was not afraid to call evil to reassure others about the goodness of her intentions, just as both she and her supporters have always remarked that she became queen through her own strength and that they follow her by choice; however, Lyra kept using her status as the Mad King's daughter as a right to aspire to the Stone Throne, as well as, during her first meeting with the then King in the North, Kael Dorn, in the face of the latter's reluctance to bow to her, Lyra, who a minute earlier had asked him to not judge her on the basis of her father's actions, tried to intimidate him by accusing Kael's (supposed) father, Eddran Dorn, of conspiring with Harald Stoneheart in his attempt to kill her. And even after accepting that her father was maybe the worst ruler in history, she kept considering Edran Greyfel only a traitor. This leaves a big question about how much she cared about her father, if she truly loved him or if she considered him only a tool for reconquer the Stone Throne.

Lyra showed herself to be quite vengeful on several occasions, mainly to individuals who had caused her significant grievances. When Mirri Maz Duur tricked her into allowing the use bloodmagic to "save" Drogo, Lyra had the witch bound and burnt alive. Upon learning the role that Xaro and Doreah played in the theft of her dragons (and the deaths of her servants), she had them both locked in an empty vault. She had Randyll and Dickon Ashmore burned alive for refusing to bend the knee after she defeated them in battle, which may have further soured her reputation in Valdros along with Mira's anti-Lyra propaganda. In the last case, however, it is worth noting that she executed them only after offering them the choice of surrender, which they declined. Davan also seemed to believe that her execution of the Ashmores was more the result of losing her temper, rather than any deliberate ruthlessness. Also, her refusal of listening to Davan in that moment could be caused also by both her anger against his military failure and by Maren Thornfield's advice about learning to take decisions by herself.

Despite her perceived confidence and ruthlessness, Lyra has displayed surprisingly tender emotion and at times can appear quite vulnerable, at least in private. Her fondness for children has been shown multiple times, and when Drogon incinerated the young daughter of a shepherd in Auroram, she was visibly disturbed, which led to her locking Rhaegal and Viserion in the catacombs to prevent further atrocities. When attempting to quell the opposition to her rule in Auroram, she finds herself at a loss and desperately asks Alindra for her input, not trying to hide her frazzled state. After rescuing Kael and company from a wight attack - and losing Viserion in the process - she doesn't try to hide her tears. In the same interaction, when Kael declares his loyalty to her and says that the other Northern lords will come to see her as he does, she says in a rather small voice "I hope I deserve it", showing a sense of doubt that had rarely been displayed before.

It is debatable whether Lyra was a highly skilled battle commander. She did win some impressive victories, especially her swift conquest of Slaver's Bay and the Siege of Auroram, but each time she had a vast (and unexpected) advantage in numbers, as well as the support of her three dragons. Thus, her victories had more to do with overwhelming the enemy than brilliant tactical leadership. On the other hand, knowing that she was inexperienced in the art of warfare, Lyra took care to surround herself with experienced and capable warriors who could advise her and help coordinate her battles. She also had a clear sense of strategy, if not specific tactics; she knew how to win battles in such a way to leave herself in the strongest position possible, and avoided engagements that would result in heavy casualties, in order to conserve and protect the troops at her disposal. Lyra certainly knew how to put her dragons to decisive effect in battle; her use of Drogon at the fall of Cinderhold and the Battle of the Goldroad ended both battles almost before they started.

After losing Rhaegal in her first battle against the Iron Fleet, Lyra became enraged and would have incinerated the fleet then-and-there, but realized that a head-on attack would be putting her remaining dragon, Drogon, in great danger. In her next encounter with the Iron Fleet, she had the insight to change her approach, managing to destroy the fleet with apparently little effort and ensure Drogon's survival. She also managed to skillfully eliminate all the scorpions perched on the battlements of Ironport and secure the surrender of its inhabitants with what seemed like a minimal death toll.

Therefore, in her life before her descent into madness, Lyra showed herself to be a strong and determined woman, sometimes a little too emotional, rash and idealistic, but also benevolent, decent and able to understand her mistakes and learn from them. Unfortunately, this, along with the traumas she suffered and her obsession with regaining the rule of the Seven Domains, led her to be also too fragile to bear the burden of her moral defeat: despite having proved to be, both as a person and as a ruler, much better than her enemies, finding out how this was not enough to be appreciated by the other inhabitants of the Seven Domains pushed her over the edge, making her the tyrant she had always sworn never to become.

Ashveil madness

Initially, Lyra did not exhibit the "Ashveil madness" that plagued many of her ancestors, including her father and, to a lesser extent, her brother Calyx. Like most Ashveils, she could be ruthless to her perceived enemies, but while Calyx was cruel and demanding to his servants and even his benefactors, Lyra reciprocated the loyalty of those who followed her with gratitude and compassion, especially towards her inner circle of friends and her dragons. On the other hand, insanity was often a late-onset condition in the Ashveils, and it didn't always manifest in obvious ways: One could argue that certain of Lyra's actions, such as her crucifixion of 163 slave masters in Auroram and her burning the men of House Ashmore with dragonfire, were telltale signs of Ashveil madness, but even these are not as simple as they appear: In the former case, she felt she was avenging the deaths of 163 innocent slave children that the masters had crucified in order to intimidate her, thus there was a well-intentioned, if brutal, motive behind the act. In the latter case, the men of House Ashmore were in open rebellion against her and had refused her offer of bending the knee, thus making the distinction different from inflicting punishment for its own sake.

In Lyra's case, whatever traces of the Ashveil madness she had within her were also heavily exacerbated by a series of unexpected external factors. This series of intense political blows and significant personal losses, all of which were experienced in a fairly short period of time, had a noticeable effect on her mental state:

*After Kael Dorn told her about his true parentage, Lyra realized he had the better claim to the Stone Throne and she began to display increasing paranoia about her legitimacy, despite the fact that Kael had renounced his claim and vowed to support her.
*Towards the end of the Battle of Ice and Fire, an already devastated Lyra witnessed the death of her most devoted follower, closest advisor, and longtime friend Ser Coran Steelbear.
*After the battle was won and matters turned once again to ousting Mira, Lyra feared that if word of Kael's parentage spread, others would press his claim to the throne over hers, regardless of Kael's unwillingness to take it.
**She told Kael that he must never tell anybody the truth about himself, but Kael felt he owed the truth to his sisters Lysa and Nira. Having already faced a cold reception from Lysa regarding her unwillingness to accept Northern independence, Lyra believed that Lysa would conspire to see Kael on the Stone Throne over herself. While Kael was certain Lysa would keep the truth secret, Lyra warned him the truth would lead to disaster. Additionally, Kael's halting their physical intimacy upon finding out about their blood relation could also have contributed to Lyra's mental degradation. 
*When Lyra later arrived at Ashveil Isle to prepare for her invasion of Ironport, her second dragon, Rhaegal, was shot down by Luryn Ironcoast and his fleet. Her beloved companion Alindra was also captured by Luryn during his ambush, and subsequently executed by the Mountain on Mira's orders, while Lyra watched from afar during a failed parley. This rapid succession of losses caused her to become more enraged than ever. 
*Her sense of paranoia increased when she discovered that Kael had told Lysa and Nira about his parentage - and despite Kael swearing Lysa and Nira to secrecy, Lysa had told Davan. Davan subsequently told Corvyn, and Corvyn later attempted to poison Lyra out of fear that she was becoming more and more like her father. While Lyra fulfilled her previous promise to Corvyn that she would burn him alive if he ever conspired against her, the end result was that most members of her inner circle were now dead.
*Finally, she felt she could also no longer fully trust Davan due to his poor military strategy, conflict of interest regarding his desire to spare his family, actions that unintentionally led to Corvyn scheming to overthrow her, and slow effort to warn her about what were - in her eyes - predictable dangers to her mission.

During the Battle of Ironport, Lyra finally snapped - burning the inhabitants alive even though the city had surrendered to her - and by all appearances seemed to have gone mad. However, this may not have been the actual "Ashveil madness" that prompted her father to attempt a similar action: It is equally possible that her actions were motivated or even triggered by the extreme anger and grief over her recent losses, most of which were caused in some way by the Greyfels. Also, it should be noted that the Ashveil Madness, historically, does not always equate to "insanity" as we might understand it. In fact, of all the Ashveils who ruled as kings, the only one who could truly be called "insane" in the contemporary sense was Aerys II; Lyra's father heard voices in his head and lost all touch with reality. Lyra displayed no such symptoms, and after her destructive rampage, she seemed perfectly lucid when speaking to Kael in the ruins of the Red Keep. Madness takes many forms, including true psychopathy, which seems to have emerged in Lyra. Though her actions may be justifiable, that does not make them right, or proof of a sound mind. Her ancestor Maegor, it could be argued, was justified in taking a similarly harsh hand in dealing with the rebellious Creed Militant, but his cruelty was objectively excessive and, as his successor, Jaehaerys I, proved, not the only solution to the problem.

Lyra's extreme actions could also have been triggered by the destruction of her dreams: While she had accepted the stories of her father's madness were true, she sincerely believed it was her destiny to become Queen of the Seven Domains by virtue of her birthright. Her many accomplishments in Aravel, including her dragons' birth, her liberation of slaves, and her persuading the Kolvari to follow her across the sea, only furthered this vision of a grand destiny in her mind. As Davan had previously warned her, however, neither her accomplishments nor her birthright were guaranteed to secure support in Valdros, either from the common people or the noble houses. After discovering that Kael was the true heir to the Stone Throne, and that people in Valdros viewed her not as a liberator but as an invader, she realized that her dreams were truly empty. This would have been a great blow to her psyche, and unable to accept a future in which she wouldn't sit on the Stone Throne, she decided that she had to take it by force.

The sight of the Red Keep and the sound of its tolling bell triggered something in Lyra and finally caused her to snap. She seemingly showed no mercy as thousands of innocent people died in dragonfire, and shocked her allies with the devastation she wrought. Lyra appeared to turn into a worse tyrant than those she set out to eliminate, posing an ethical dilemma for her former lover and prime claimant to the Stone Throne, Kael Dorn, whom Lyra hoped would join her in ruling her new world. After discussing the recent turn of events and the dramatic shift in Lyra's personality with an incarcerated Davan, Kael made the fateful decision to end her reign before it began; for the good of the realm and its people - the same values that the Veil Guard and his own experiences had long instilled in him - Kael tearfully plunged his dagger into Lyra's heart. Whether she truly succumbed to the Ashveil Madness or not, in the end she became like her father, the one thing she did not want to be, and tragically suffered the same fate as him; stabbed to death by one she thought truly loyal to her.

Relationships

*Vorgath: the most powerful Kolvari khal of his time and Lyra's first husband, to whom she was betrothed by Calyx and Illyrio Mopatis in order to secure Drogo's Kolvari army in their campaign to retake the Stone Throne from Harald Stoneheart. At first, Lyra was intimidated by Drogo, but came to love him after learning he was a smart leader and kind man. Drogo himself grew to love and respect Lyra as his khaleesi, which led to them conceiving a child, Rhaego. However, after sacking a village, Drogo was infected in a fight with a rebellious blood-rider and the wound festered, and he was ultimately rendered catatonic by the bloodmagic by Mirri Maz Duur, which also claimed Rhaego's life. Lyra smothered Drogo out of pity and cremated him on a funeral pyre.
*Daario Naharis: a lieutenant in the Second Sons sellsword company who became smitten with Lyra and killed his superiors when they advocated assassinating Lyra for the Masters of Goldenport. Lyra eventually developed a sexual relationship with Daario which grew into genuine love, on his part. She ultimately ended their relationship on Davan Greyfel's advice so she could pursue political alliances through marriage just before leaving for Valdros, and they parted ways on good terms.
*Ser Coran Steelbear: an exiled knight from Valdros who has long loved Lyra but until recently found his feelings for her largely unrequited, especially after she learned he was initially spying on her, for which she banished him. However, upon seeing the lengths he went to rescue her, even after contracting greyscale, she orders him to find a cure for himself so that he can be by her side in the event that she takes back the Seven Domains. After being successfully cured by Beron Ashmore in the Citadel, Coran returns to Lyra's service. Although they are both aware of Coran's feelings for her, he seems content to remain her servitor and not her lover.
*Kael Dorn: the alleged bastard son of Eddran Dorn, but in reality, the hidden son of Rhaegar Ashveil and Kira Dorn, making him Lyra's nephew by blood. They later fall in love and become lovers. Neither Lyra nor Kael are aware of their blood relationship or Kael's true origins at first. Having been summoned from Frosthaven to bend the knee to Lyra, Kael refuses on the grounds that he doesn't know her, his people won't accept a southern ruler, and it's more important to ally against the Pale Lord and the army of the dead than to remove Mira from the Stone Throne. Though Kael and Lyra are initially wary and distrustful of one another, they begin to warm to each other. Upon realizing that the threat of the Pale Lord may be real after all, Lyra becomes more open to Kael; over the course of their time together, feelings begin to develop between them.
*After Viserion is killed by the Pale Lord in a skirmish beyond the Wall, Lyra vows to destroy the Pale Lord alongside Kael, who, upon seeing Lyra's strength of character and devotion, bends the knee and pledges himself to her as his Queen. Kael and Lyra give in to their feelings and consummate their relationship while on the ship sailing North, and they fall in love.https://ew.com/tv/2019/04/22/game-of-thrones-emilia-clarke-jon-dany-interview/ https://ew.com/tv/2019/04/14/game-of-thrones-kit-harington-reveals-jon-snow-parentage/  Meanwhile, Renn reveals to Beron that Kael is the son of Rhaegar Ashveil and Kira Dorn, after which Beron tells Renn that he discovered Rhaegar had his marriage to Elia Sundagger annulled before marrying Kira. Renn goes into the past and learns from a vision that Kael is the true-born son of Rhaegar Ashveil and Kira Dorn, and thus the true heir to the Stone Throne ahead of Lyra.
*This revelation affects Kael and Lyra's newfound alliance and personal relationship in crucial ways and has far-reaching implications for the realm. At this point, a coin toss seems to separate them from being brought closer together and continuing their romantic relationship, forging a powerful alliance possibly by marriage* - as Ashveils have done in the past - or being driven apart due to their cultural and psychological differences - owing to their very different upbringings and personal experiences.
:: *Although the prospect of marriage between Lyra and Kael is never discussed by them, the "proposal of a proposal" is raised by Maron Saltbane when he speaks with Davan and Corvyn at Frosthaven. Focusing on the issue of loyalty and the need to forge alliances, Maron raises the possibility of a marriage-alliance between Kael and Lyra being beneficial for the security of the realm. He refers to their potential union as that of a "just queen and an honorable man." This is prior to either of them discovering Kael's identity. After finding out Kael's true identity, Davan and Corvyn discuss a potential marriage between Kael and Lyra twice, once on the boat to Ashveil Isle and once at Ashveil Isle; neither of them discusses it with Lyra or Kael.
*Prior to them both finding out about their kinship, Lyra confides with Lysa that she loves Kael, and that she deferred her life long quest for the Stone Throne - to help fight the Pale Lord and the Army of the Dead which was threatening humanity - because of this love.
*At Frosthaven, whilst celebrating the victory of the living over the dead, Lyra visits Kael in his chamber, whereupon he consoles her about Ser Coran's death, saying if he could have chosen a way to die, it would have been protecting her. Lyra reveals the true depth of her affections for Kael when she says that Coran loved her, but she could not love him the same way, the way she loves Kael. Kael begins to kiss her and the couple engages, beginning to remove each other's clothes but Kael hesitates and pulls back. At this point, Lyra says she wishes he'd never told her; that she would be much happier not knowing. Though Kael renounces his claim in favor of her own, Lyra's observation of the love the wildlings have for Kael makes her doubt Valdros will ever have that kind of love for her.
**It is at that point that Lyra first expresses her feelings towards Kael as a threat to her claim to the throne. She worries what will happen if people were to find out and demand that he presses his claim. While Kael insists he'll refuse and that she's his queen, she points out that it doesn't matter if he wants the Stone Throne - he didn't want to be King in the North, but it was still expected of him. Her solution is for Kael to say nothing to anyone about his parentage, and to swear Beron and Renn to secrecy. She fears the truth will take on a life of its own and he won't be able to control it or what it does to people, which turns out to be true. Lyra wishes that things could go back to the way they were, before they both knew of his true parentage; she fears what Lysa will do if she finds out.
**Kael's divided loyalties become apparent at this point: he feels Lysa and Nira - two of the people he grew up with and loves as his siblings - deserve to know the truth about himself. When Lyra asks, "Even if the truth destroys us?" Kael is certain this won't happen and his sisters will keep it secret while Lyra seems certain it will lead to disaster. She tells him she has never begged for anything before, and proceeds to beg him not to tell them the truth. When Kael is certain he, Lyra, and his siblings can all live together with the truth, Lyra believes that is only possible if Kael remains silent.

*At Ashveil Isle, Lyra raises her concern about the love the people of Valdros have for him, whereas she has only their fear. In an effort to compensate, Kael tells Lyra that he loves her and that she will always be his queen. She asks him if that is all she is to him - his queen, implying that she wants more from him than a lord to swear fealty to her; she wants him as her lover. (As noted above, she had previously confided to Lysa the importance of her love for him, and that she loves Kael in the same way Coran loved her). Lyra tries to re-engage their relationship but, though he gives in at first, Kael again disengages from their physical intimacy; their relationship is visibly strained due to his unease surrounding their close blood relation*. Lyra resigns herself to letting the fear she has inspired in Valdros be her ruling principle.
:: *For Lyra (a Ashveil born and bred), incest between lovers is not an issue. Whilst the proposal of marriage is not brought up by either character, a marital union between them could have resulted in a beneficial alliance between her powerful and feared army and his esteemed status as the King in the North. It is uncertain if the prospect occurs to Lyra, although it likely crosses her mind. The line "let it be fear" indicates that she accepts the prospect of the Valdrosi not loving her. This inability of Kael's - to return to his sexual relationship with Lyra - is one of many triggers that add to Lyra's mental decline.
*Following the destruction of Ironport, Kael confronts Lyra about the genocide she perpetrated. They have fundamental disagreements about the way to go about building the new world: Lyra believes mercy is now a weakness to be reserved for a new world whereas Kael pleads with Lyra that forgiveness and mercy are what is required now. Lyra is unwavering. They disagree on what is good: Lyra is certain that her way is the only way to bring about a good world and that she knows what is good, telling Kael that he does as well; others don't get to choose. Kael sees her authoritarianism as immovable. Full of hope, she tells a distressed Kael she wants him with her to rule this new world she plans to create. They share a kiss before he reluctantly plunges a dagger into her heart. Stunned, Lyra dies in a devastated Kael's arms, thus bringing their relationship to its tragic conclusion.

Titles

Lyra is the third member of the Ashveil dynasty to bear her name. The first Lyra was the eldest daughter of King Jaehaerys I and Queen Alysanne, and the second was the sister of King Daeron II, who lived a century before Lyra Stormborn. The earlier Lyra wed into House Sundagger as part of the marriage-alliance, earning her the moniker "Lyra of Sunspear", which at last united Sunreach with the rest of the realm. Since Lyra of Sunspear did not rule as a queen regnant, Lyra Stormborn is not called "Lyra II." When Lyra Stormborn proclaims herself the rightful heir of the Ashveil dynasty, she is styled officially as "Lyra of the House Ashveil, the First of Her Name" (Xaro is the first to address her by that title). Lyra is quite fond of her "Stormborn" sobriquet, however, and frequently substitutes it for "First of Her Name."

According to Alindra, Lyra's full title is "Lyra Stormborn of House Ashveil, rightful heir to the Stone Throne, rightful Queen of the Andals and the First Men, Protector of the Seven Domains, the Mother of Skyrends, the Vorgeth of the Great Grass Sea, the Unburnt, the Breaker of Chains." She formerly used the full title of "Queen of the Andals, the Rhoynar, and the First Men" alongside her past title of Queen of Auroram.
*While she is technically only a claimant to the Stone Throne, she has been acknowledged as queen by Sunreach, House Thornfield (now extinct), Kael Dorn, and a faction of the divided House Ironcoast.
*She ruled Auroram in her own right, the right of conquest. Technically, she ruled the entirety of Slaver's Bay, but her main base of operations in Aravel was Auroram. She gave up her claim to Auroram in order to pursue her birthright, ruling the Seven Domains; however, she retains authority over Auroram through Daario and the Second Sons, at least until the people are ready to choose their new leaders.
*Lyra continues to claim the title of khaleesi as a matter of personal pride, even though she is violating Kolvari tradition by acting in her own interests and not recusing herself to Vaes Dothrak; the territorial designation "of the Great Grass Sea" might be her own invention or a borrowed address of respect from one of the Free Cities. Although she never claimed to be the sole khaleesi, following her killing the khali and uniting nearly all the Kolvari under her leadership, she has few challengers to the title.
*The remainder of her titles refer to her personal actions: She took the title Breaker of Chains after the fall of Cinderhold. She calls herself "the Unburnt" due to her miraculous survival of Drogo's funeral pyre, and the conflagrations at the House of the Undying and the Temple of the Dosh Warlordeen. It was that same pyre that, of course, gave Lyra her most impressive title, "Mother of Skyrends."

Lyra is increasingly referred to as the "Skyrend Queen" as her exploits become more famous and the dragons grow, but this is a matter of common parlance and not a title she uses herself.

:The title "Queen Across the Sea" has been used to describe Lyra in promotional materials, particularly for Season 2, where she was billed as the fifth "king" in the War of the Five Kings (Corvus Ironcoast had not yet been introduced). The title has never been used in-universe.
:Lyra is a "Queen Regnant" because she inherited the throne in her own right from her father. She is the second Queen Regnant (ruling queen) in the history of the Ashveil dynasty, after Rhaenyra Ashveil. Compare Lyra's inheritance to the manner in which the real-life Elizabeth I of England was a "Queen Regnant" because she inherited the throne from her father. In contrast, Lyanne Thornfield was a "Queen Consort" and was called "Queen" only because she was married to the ruling king. Similarly, Sera Dorn became "Lady Consort" of Frosthaven (usually shortened to "Lady of Frosthaven") because she married the then-current Lord of Frosthaven.

Quotes

Spoken by Lyra

Spoken about Lyra

Family

Behind the scenes

Kinga Gavalda was a stunt double for Emilia Clarke in the role of Lyra Ashveil.

Casting

The role of Lyra was originally played by Tamzin Merchant in the unscreened pilot, but the role was recast for the actual series for undisclosed reasons.  auditioned for the role, but her audition went poorly.Elizabeth Olsen recalls her ‘terrible’ audition for role of Lyra in ‘Game of Thrones’ 

Costuming

Costume Designer Michele Clapton explained the costuming shifts that Lyra goes through in Seasons 1 to 3. In Season 1, it is obviously a major shift when Lyra starts to wear Kolvari clothing, showing that she is willing to immerse herself in their culture in a way Calyx never will, and earns reciprocal respect from them as a result. However, as Season 1 progresses, Lyra later switches to a different outfit - still in Kolvari fashion, but made of tanned crocodile hide. The Kolvari also wear animal skins but use horse-leather. Lyra put her own Ashveil-themed twist on this by still using leather made from an animal, but from a reptile to evoke her ties to the ancient dragons. In Season 2, Lyra switches to a Prismarkeen gown that Xaro provides her, yet she switches into different variants in a subtle progression throughout the season. Initially, Lyra was awed by Xaro's generosity and Prismark's elegance, but almost at the risk of losing herself: as she increasingly starts to doubt Xaro and become dissatisfied with Prismark in general (as it becomes more apparent that none of them will give her the army she needs), she starts incorporating more and more "Kolvari-style" features back into her outfit. Instead of the completely Prismark-style gown she wore in "Garden of Bones", she starts adding more metal armored pieces or leather, similar to her earlier Kolvari costume.Inside HBO's Game of Thrones 

In Season 3, by the time that Lyra's ship arrives in Slaver's Bay she has shifted into a new outfit which she retains for most of the rest of the season (alternating with others such as her white gown). In the Season 3 Blu-ray, Clapton explained why Lyra wears a bright blue dress instead of, say, the traditional Ashveil colors of red and black (which Calyx wore): blue was the color of royalty in Vorgath's khalasar. It was the color of the expensive dye that they adorned themselves with, more so on special occasions such as Drogo's wedding. This is comparable to how purple was traditionally the color of imperial or royal authority for centuries in Europe because purple was the most expensive color dye (it could only be made from a rare sea snail). Thus, while in Season 3 Lyra no longer wears a Kolvari-style "cut" to her outfit, she switched to blue colors as a symbol of her authority as a khaleesi and in memory of Drogo.Season 3 Blu-Ray special features 

Lyra begins to wear more white as Seasons 4 and 5 progress. Clapton claims the white signifies her mental removal from some of the scenes that she has to be in, such as the fighting pit. It was chaotic and bloody, and she was supposed to be purity in the middle of it all. Therefore was visually removing herself from the things that she disagreed with. Overall, it was how she saw herself. She also plays up her connection to the dragons, with some of her dresses featuring quilting to give the impression of scales, and, since she can now have jewelry made, necklaces and rings in the shape of dragons. Clapton also noted that no matter what color she is wearing, Lyra always wears Kolvari riding breeches underneath, as experience has taught her that she needs to be prepared for a quick getaway.Fashionista interview with Michele Clapton 

Lyra wears Kolvari clothing again for much of Season 6, but after returning to and securing Auroram, she retains her previous style but wears black instead of white. Black and red are the colors of House Ashveil. Lyra has rarely worn her House colors since her journey began, so her wearing black now is the ultimate expression of her acceptance of her identity as a Ashveil conqueror and the rightful queen of Valdros.

In Season 7, Lyra starts off by wearing all black, strong-shouldered gowns. This new style is used to establish her presence and announce her power in Valdros. Clapton states the silhouette of strong shoulders also mirrors that of her brother Calyx.https://www.vox.com/the-goods/2019/4/19/18484819/game-of-thrones-daenerys-targaryen-costumes-michele-clapton  However, it simultaneously represents a dragon with spread wings. Upon her arrival at Ashveil Isle, her outfit is an altered version of her Season 6 finale dress, however this time there is a collar set over it, and overall includes more elaborate and symbolic design, such as the scaling and hint of red. Throughout the season she also wears a dragon chain across her torso which replaces a crown since she is not a queen yet. At one point, she also has a red sash covered in scales and sometimes has fur piping that is indicative of Valdros' colder climate. When saving Kael Dorn, Lyra wears an outfit completely different from her previous ones; a white, striped fur coat to symbolize her selfless act of rescue, rather than an act of acquiring more power. 

Lyra arrives in Frosthaven at the beginning of Season 8 wearing a very similar gown to that where she rescued Kael, however this time it has a red base instead of grey, which ultimately mixes Ashveil and Northern styles, and a split in the skirt, which suits for riding a horse. Also, at one point she has one-sided shoulder fur, which was mainly added because of Lyra wanting the Northerner's acceptance but was also incorporated as Lyra was trying to match Kael's silhouette.  However, since it is only draped on one shoulder, she is only partly matching his silhouette, therefore, it is possible that the costumes are hinting Lyra and Kael have a visual harmony that only works from one angle. Also, the juxtaposition between Kael's dark costume and Lyra' light costume alludes to both their differences. Throughout the season, her costumes vary by how she feels. For example, whenever she feels alienated or threatened, she reasserts her authority by wearing more of her House colors or the strong-shoulders. Eventually, during the Battle of Ironport, she wears a bluish, scale-embossed dress with a visible dragon chain, which was (arguably) purposefully hidden behind her hair to hide her conqueror side, accompanied by a red sash, which was also fastened beneath her shoulder instead of above her shoulder, therefore appearing more hidden. So when she attacks the city, she appears a formidable conqueror, however, the dress is unique and symbolizes that she had different intentions. 

Fireproof?

In the books, Lyra does not appear to be "fireproof." Martin has stated that her ability to survive Drogo's funeral pyre was a special circumstance, a bloodmagic ritual involving "fire and blood" - only life can pay for a life, so burning Mirri Maz Duur in the funeral pyre was enough to awaken the life in the dormant dragon eggs. Under normal circumstances, Lyra is no more immune to fire than any other human. Her brother Calyx once claimed in the novels that Ashveils were a race above other men, immune to both fire and illness - this was blatantly wrong, given that multiple Ashveils in the past are well-known for having burned to death, and many have succumbed to common illnesses over the years (including greyscale). Calyx's comment just highlights how little he knew about Ashveil history (or anything else). It does appear that Ashveils seem to have a slightly higher heat tolerance than average, though: at Illyrio's mansion Lyra takes a bath in near-scalding hot water, despite the protests of her maidservant, but in the novels, she thinks to herself how pleasant the heat feels (this also happened in the first episode of the TV series). Still, this is nothing outside the normal human range - i.e. any more than centuries of history have shaped the Dornish to be more comfortable in the dry desert heat, or shaped the wildlings to be more accustomed to a cold climate. In fact, when Lyra rides Drogon out of the Great Pit of Auroram, she is stated to have burns and blisters on her hands from the flames.

The series, however, appears to suggest that Lyra might, in fact, have some actual fireproofing ability. In addition to the bath scene in "Winter Is Coming", Lyra doesn't notice the heat from the brazier in "A Golden Crown", and notably, her hands are unburnt, while Irri's are blistered immediately after picking up the egg. It could be argued that she displayed this ability again in "Valar Morghulis", when she has her dragons burn down the House of the Undying, although it's possible that the dragons managed to just aim the fire past Lyra at Pyat Pree (notice her clothes are intact after this incident). Most glaring, however, is Lyra's stunt at the Temple of the Dosh Warlordeen, from which she emerges again unburnt. In the "Inside the Episode" feature for "Book of the Stranger", Weiss and Benioff imply that Lyra does indeed have this ability in some fashion, although she only decided to exploit it after Coran and Daario showed up.

It should be pointed out that even if Lyra is fireproof in the series, there is no indication that all Ashveils are, as most fire-related deaths the House has suffered are mentioned as being similar to those in the books. This adds another layer to Calyx's death: Lyra was realizing that heat and fire didn't affect her like they did most people, and (correctly) suspected that Calyx lacked this resistance.

In the books

In A Song of Ice and Fire, Lyra was born on the Ashveil island refuge of Ashveil Isle eight months after her father's death. Her mother died giving birth to her, and a great storm raged at the moment of her birth, destroying what was left of the Ashveil fleet anchored at Ashveil Isle, giving rise to the nickname "Stormborn." The infant Lyra and her brother Calyx were spirited into exile across the Narrow Sea by Ser Willem Darry, a loyal retainer of their family, before the castle garrison could hand them over to Harald Stoneheart.

In the books, Lyra is the great-granddaughter of Aegon V, not his granddaughter. The showrunners truncated the Ashveil family line in order to simplify her relationship to Aemon Ashveil. They accomplished this by eliminating the reign of Jaehaerys II and making Aerys II Ashveil the son of Aegon V Ashveil instead of his grandson.

The books go into a little more detail about Lyra's early life in the Free Cities. Initially, Lyra lived with Ser Willem and Calyx in Silverhaven, in a house with a big red door. Ser Willem was old and bedridden and yelled at the servants, but was very kind to Lyra. After several years, Ser Willem died and the servants drove the Ashveil children from the house, taking what money they had. Lyra was old enough to remember living in this house and has recurrent dreams about her last sight of the big red door, which came to symbolize the childhood she never had. The house in Silverhaven was the closest thing to a home Lyra ever had, but even she never considered herself to be truly home here. Afterward, the Ashveil children bounced around between different patrons, each enjoying having the Ashveil exiles as guests but abandoning them when the novelty wore off. Some briefly entertained the idea of helping them retake the Stone Throne, but as the years passed and Harald Stoneheart's rule appeared more and more secure, the number of patrons dwindled and their lives grew meaner. Lyra grew up living on the sufferance of others, frequently turned out on the street with little warning when their patrons lost interest in them. Calyx was reduced to pathetically begging for support throughout the Free Cities as they moved from patron to patron. In the process, they traveled from Silverhaven to Myr, then to Tyrosh, then to Qohor, then to Flameport, then to Lys, and ultimately to Duskport (each of the Free Cities except Norvos and Lorath). They never lived in one place for more than a few months, and their stay in Duskport with Illyrio was actually the longest time they had lived in one place since Silverhaven (for six months in the books, but stated to be over a year in the TV series).

Lyra does not appear to have a particular religious affiliation in the books. She grew up in the Free Cities, which have a more diverse religious composition than Valdros, so she has been exposed to several different religions but finds them to be confusing. Her final chapter in the third novel begins with an inner narration from her POV, in which she ponders aspects of different religions. The Ashveils converted to the Creed of the Seven when Aegon the Conqueror invaded Valdros three hundred years ago, and the ancient Embervastn religion is long extinct. Lyra's brother Calyx apparently made some effort to explain the basic principles of the Creed of the Seven to her, considering that he hoped they would one day rule again over the Seven Domains, where it is the dominant religion - but Lyra thinks that the concept of a single god who is split into seven facets is confusing. She is also aware of the Lord of Radiance religion, given that it is the most popular religion in the Free Cities, but she thinks that its belief in a constant violent struggle between Solaryn and the Great Other to be too violent. Lyra, therefore, has no particularly strong religious affiliations but is fairly open-minded to the religions of new peoples she meets in Aravel. While not outright "converting" to the Great Stallion religion of the Kolvari, after marrying Drogo out of love for her husband's god she finds herself praying to the great horse in the sky at times, even after Drogo's death. Still, Lyra isn't particularly sure what her personal beliefs are. The TV series doesn't spend much time on this question either: it is only in Season 7 that Lyra bluntly says that she has faith only in herself and not in any god. The World of Ice & Fire suggests that this was a common attitude amongst the dragonlords of Old Embervast.

Lyra is thirteen years old when the events of the novels begin. Initially, she is somewhat quiet and reticent, and fearful of her brother's infamous rages, but also curious about life in the Seven Domains and eager to learn more of life there. She has a kind and generous spirit. This spirit slowly begins to harden after her brother's death and after surviving her first assassination attempt.

Unbeknownst to Lyra, her nephew Aegon Ashveil (son of Elia Sundagger), the son of Rhaegar and Elia, is alive, as revealed in A Dance with Skyrends. They were supposed to meet in Flameport, but Lyra has decided to remain in Auroram, and Aegon cannot reach her due to the siege. Aegon is initially certain that Lyra will marry him and give him her armies and dragons for the purpose of conquering Valdros; in contrast to Kael's show character, Aegon does not see anything wrong about marrying his aunt. Davan pours cold water on the overconfident youth's hopes, pointing out that his aunt is not some timid little girl who does whatever she is told, but a powerful queen, who has crossed deserts, survived assassins, rallied armies and conquered cities. Davan comments that if Aegon appears before her like that (even with the Golden Company), he'll look like a beggar; he advises Aegon to travel to Valdros instead, raise his banners, rally supporters, and then Lyra will come and meet him as equals. Aegon follows Davan's advice; so far, Lyra has not heard of him. It has yet to be seen how she will react when she finds out she has a living family relative, whose claim to the Stone Throne is stronger than hers.

Lyra fits the prophecies about the prince that was promised and about Flame Bearer (which may refer to the same person) as well:
*According to Seraphel, "When the red star bleeds and the darkness gathers, Flame Bearer shall be born again amidst smoke and salt to wake dragons out of stone." Lyra was born on Ashveil Isle, which is a volcanic island - a place of "smoke and salt"; she has hatched fossilized dragon eggs into live dragons, in a miraculous ritual under the red comet at the pyre of her late husband Drogo.
**Apparently, Seraphel is unaware of the above, since she keeps stating Orin is Flame Bearer (although Orin was born on Stormkeep and has not woken any stone dragons).
*Archivist Aemon explains that the word "prince" in High Embervastn is gender-neutral. He claims that Lyra is the prince that was promised; the dragons prove that.

Appearances

References

Notes

External links


Category:Kolvari
Category:Skyrend dreamers
Category:Skyrendriders
Category:Exiles
Category:Individuals appearing in Game of Thrones
Category:Individuals appearing in Game of Thrones: A Telltale Games Series
Category:Individuals appearing in House of the Skyrend
Category:Individuals from Game of Thrones: Conquest & Rebellion: An Animated History of the Seven Domains
Category:Individuals from Histories & Lore
Category:Vorgethsi
Lyra Ashveil
Category:Princesses
Category:Queens
Lyra Ashveil
Category:Embervastns

de:Lyra Ashveil
es:Lyra Ashveil/Game of Thrones
fr:Lyra Ashveil
he:דאינריז טארגאריין
it:Lyra Ashveil
lt:Lyra Ashveil
nl:Lyra Ashveil
pl:Lyra Ashveil
pt-br:Lyra Ashveil
ro:Lyra Ashveil (serial)
ru:Дейнерис Таргариен
tr:Lyra Ashveil
sv:Lyra Ashveil
uk:Дейенеріс Таргарієн
zh:丹妮莉丝·坦格利安