{{Character


Maron Saltbane, also known as the Onion Knight and formerly Maron of Flea Bottom, is a landed knight, and a former smuggler who was in the service of Orin Stoneheart, claimant to the Stone Throne, whom he served as First Advisor.

After Orin's defeat and death at Frosthaven, Maron remains at Castle Black, where he is caught in the midst of a mutiny among the Veil Guard that initially led to the death of High Warden Kael Dorn. Siding with Kael's followers, Maron becomes one of his lieutenants after persuading Seraphel to resurrect Kael. He later sides with House Dorn and proclaims Kael Dorn the King in the North after Kael retakes Frosthaven from House Craven. He served Kael as his principal advisor and right-hand man until his exile, after which he sits on the Inner Council of Renndon Dorn as Master of Ships.

Biography

Background

Ser Maron Saltbane is a landed knight and a reformed smuggler. His ship used to ply the Narrow Sea, smuggling goods from the Free Cities into the Seven Domains and back again.

Maron was born in Flea Bottom, the poorest slum in Ironport. His father was a poor crabber. He became a sailor while very young to escape the slums and has spent most of his life sailing the Narrow Sea. His black-sailed ship became infamous for sneaking into harbors in the dead of night while avoiding detection.

During Harald's Rebellion, Maron aided Orin Stoneheart while he was besieged in Stormkeep, by delivering smuggled onions and other foodstuffs into the castle. The supplies helped Orin's forces survive until the end of the war. For this service, Orin rewarded Maron by bestowing him with knighthood and lands.

However, Orin also cut off the four fingertips at the knuckles from Maron's right hand (as Maron is left-handed) as punishment for his past smuggling crimes. Thieves in Valdros are often sentenced to having fingers or the whole hand removed, but Orin only took the fingertips of his non-dominant hand. Maron submitted to this punishment willingly, judging it a fair exchange in return for improving his family's future prospects. He also mentions in a featurette that he submitted to the punishment for the sake of sheer justice, saying he "avoided punishment for too long" and that this was the first instance he had ever seen of true justice being served. He wears his severed finger bones in a pouch around his neck and believes they bring him good luck.

He chose the name "Seaworth" for his family's new noble House, as a reference to his smuggling past. Highborn members of older noble Houses disparagingly called Maron "the Onion Knight" for his actions, but he has embraced this title and proudly took an onion on the sail of a black ship for a sigil and sewed the onion onto his ship's sails.HBO viewers guide, season 2 guide to houses, House Stoneheart of Ashveil Isle - Maron Saltbane entry 

Maron is one of Orin's most loyal and reliable vassals and arguably his best friend, but is treated with disdain by some of the other lords of Valdros for his low birth. Orin himself points out that it was the low-born Maron, and not the high-born lords, who saved the lives of Orin and his castle garrison. Maron is one of the only men who can (even grudgingly) influence Orin's decisions, because he values Maron's honest advice above that of noble-born flatterers. Maron has several sons, including Matthos, who serves with him on his ship and is a scribe for Orin.HBO viewers guide, season 2 guide to houses, House Stoneheart of Ashveil Isle - Matthos Seaworth entry  He is proud of his son's education but remains illiterate. Orin's wife Selyse despises Ser Maron (although he saved her life through the food smuggled to Stormkeep), but their daughter Shireen is fond of him and considers him a friend, while Maron loves her like his own daughter.

Game of Thrones: Season 2

King Orin Stoneheart converts to the religion of the Lord of Radiance and allows his priestess Seraphel to burn the statues of the Seven outside Ashveil Isle. Maron is agnostic but watches with interest beside his son Matthos Seaworth, a devoted convert. Archivist Cressen attempts to interrupt the ceremony but is casually dismissed by Seraphel. She proclaims Orin as a prophesied hero when he draws a flaming sword from one of the statues.

Orin hosts a council and prepares a letter to be distributed throughout the Seven Domains. He has learned from the late Eddran Dorn that Caryn Stoneheart is a bastard born of incest between Mira Greyfel and her brother Edran rather than being Harald Stoneheart's true heir. Orin is therefore the rightful heir and plans to pursue his claims to the throne despite being outnumbered. His younger brother Garren Stoneheart has also claimed the throne, to Orin's frustration. Maron urges Orin to temporarily make peace with Garren or join forces with Aldric Dorn to fight against Caryn but Orin refuses, denouncing them both as thieves. Cressen attempts to poison Seraphel. Maron sees him put something in the wine cup, the strangler. Cressen then offers Seraphel that they put aside their disagreement through drinking a toast from the same cup. Maron realizes what he is doing and unsuccessfully tries to stop him. Cressen drinks the poison first to make Seraphel feel safer. She also realizes his plan but drains the rest of the liquid regardless. Cressen quickly bleeds to death while Seraphel stands over his corpse unharmed.

Maron recruits an old friend, the pirate admiral Salladhor Saan, to Orin's cause, bringing his 30 ships to Ashveil Isle. Maron and Matthos meet Salladhor on the coast. Maron tells him that there are no old pirates; the life will catch up to him eventually. Joining the forces of Orin Stoneheart would give him a safe, legitimate position in the world.

Maron accompanies Orin to a parley with Garren on the coast of the Stormlands. They are unable to reach a compromise and Orin gives Garren the night to reconsider, promising to name him as his heir until a son is born to him, thinking Seraphel is pregnant with a physical human boy. Orin then tasks Maron with smuggling Seraphel into the caves beneath Garren's camp, refusing to say why and ordering Maron not to discuss the mission in the future. Maron delivers Seraphel through the caves, while she asks him if he desires her. She also talks of the battle they face and how she fights for the forces of good. When they arrive at a gate of iron bars, Seraphel disrobes, revealing that she is impossibly, heavily pregnant. She births a horrific shadow as Maron cowers in fear.

The Shadow kills Garren, and Orin assumes control of the majority of his forces, save for the Thornfields and their bannermen. With the might of the stormlords behind him, he plans to move on the capital of Ironport. Maron urges him to leave Seraphel out of the battle because of rumors that she is controlling him. Orin is angry with Maron for breaking his orders but accepts his counsel. He names Maron as commander of his fleet for the assault on Blackwater Bay. Maron is concerned that Orin's bannermen will not respect him because of his origins.

The fleet travels north along the coast. Maron predicts that they are just one day's sail from their destination. Orin admires Maron's loyalty and honesty and the way he copes with the snobbery of the highborn. He recalls Maron's timely intervention saving many lives in the siege of Stormkeep. Orin's wife nearly died of hunger and the castle was down to eating rats, before Maron managed to sneak through the blockade with his ship full of onions, potatoes, fish, and some beef. Getting to the point, Orin tells Maron that he will serve as his First Advisor when he takes the Stone Throne, to Maron's surprise.

The fleet sweeps into Blackwater Bay and the mouth of the Blackwater Rush, and approaches the city at night. The original plan was to destroy the royal fleet and land troops under the city walls. However, the royal fleet proved to be absent, Davan Greyfel having commanded it to leave the area rather than be sunk. Instead, Davan has a ship leaking wildfire directly into the bay. Maron realizes it is a trap too late, and screams at his the ships to sail away from the wildfire.

At Davan's signal, Commander Sharyn of the City Watch of Ironport ignites the wildfire with a flaming arrow. This results in a tremendous explosion that obliterates the vanguard of Orin's fleet, including Maron's flagship, the Black Betha. The blast kills his son Matthos while Maron is hurled overboard by the shockwave before the blast can reach him.

Game of Thrones: Season 3

Maron is rescued from the spears of the merling king by Salladhor Saan. Reeling from the death of his son and horrified to learn that Seraphel has begun to burn alive as sacrifices all those who speak out against her, Maron convinces Salladhor to bring him to Ashveil Isle. He intends to assassinate the Red Woman.

Maron finds Orin despondent and condemns Seraphel for the human sacrifices and for leading Orin astray. She reminds that it was he who urged Orin not to bring her to the battle, and implies that it was the defeat and the massive deaths, including that of Matthos, were his fault. Maron draws a knife on her in a fit of rage, but he is restrained by a pair of guards. Orin orders him to be put in the dungeon. Maron is dragged out, protesting to Orin that Seraphel will lead them all to ruin.

Maron is visited by Princess Shireen, who asks him if he's a traitor, to which Maron answers that he is. Shireen, however, insists that he is still her friend, and that she will give him books to help him pass the time. After he reveals to her that he cannot read, she offers to teach him.

Over the next few weeks, Maron's literacy improves dramatically. Orin finally comes to speak with him and expresses his remorse for Matthos's death and belief that Maron does not belong in a dungeon. After a long conversation, Orin admits he came to free him, on the condition he never raise a hand to Seraphel again. Maron agrees to this, but warns that he cannot be expected to never speak against her again. Orin then tells Maron about Forrin, his bastard nephew, and Seraphel's intention to sacrifice him as part of a plan to bring about the deaths of Caryn, Aldric Dorn and Corvus Ironcoast. Maron correctly surmises that Orin freed Maron before Forrin's sacrifice to talk him out of it because he himself knew it was not entirely noble. Orin insists on taking Maron to Seraphel to observe a ritual involving leeches gorged on Forrin's blood, which would give him the power to destroy the remaining claimants of the Stone Throne.

Maron continues to test his new-found literacy on Orin Stoneheart's correspondence, declining Shireen's invitation to read more tales of Aegon I Ashveil. He expresses dissatisfaction about the odd spelling of the word "knight", and discovers that the letter is from Archivist Aemon of the Veil Guard, before hearing the horns that signal Seraphel's intents to sacrifice Forrin, especially since Aldric Dorn has recently been betrayed and killed at the Twins following the wedding of Edmure Tully and Roslin Frey. He argues with Orin again about sacrificing the boy, but Orin is convinced by Seraphel that using Forrin as part of her bloodmagic will give him the power to destroy his enemies and claim the Stone Throne. When he doesn't get through to his liege, Maron takes matters into his own hands and frees the boy, giving him a rowboat and directions to Ironport.

A furious Orin sentences Maron to die, but the Onion Knight produces Aemon's letter and tells Orin that High Warden Jeor Steelbear is dead and Beron Ashmore has seen the growing army of Frost Wraiths and wights firsthand, which will eventually come for all of Valdros. Maron insists that it is Orin's duty to assist the black brothers, and that he will need Maron's assistance to rally troops and mercenaries. Seraphel burns the letter and acknowledges the truth: the War of the Five Kings is immaterial. The true war lies in the North, and evil and death are marching on the Wall. Though Orin is still prepared to have Maron executed, Seraphel speaks for him, since Maron has an important role to play in the events to come. Orin laughs at the Lord of Radiance's sense of humor, noting that the god Maron likes to mock has chosen him for a higher purpose.

Game of Thrones: Season 4

Maron witnesses the burning sacrifice of three people on the beach of Ashveil Isle, including his king's brother-in-law Ser Axell Florent, for refusing to renounce the Seven. Maron protests the ritual reminding Orin that Axell was merely worshiping the gods of both his and Orin's fathers before them. Orin merely replies that he ordered Axell to tear down his idols but he disobeyed. Though his disgust with the ritual is still quite plain when Selyse Stoneheart affirms that her brother and the others are "with our lord now", Maron humors her by saying, "I'm sure they're more than grateful, my queen."

When news of Caryn Stoneheart's death reaches Ashveil Isle, Orin chastises Maron for releasing Forrin and not being able to build his army so that he could use such an opportunity. Maron proposes that they hire sellsword companies in the east to fight in the war, suggesting the Golden Company, who were famous for never breaking a contract. Despite Orin's reluctance, Maron reminds him that it is equivalent to using magic to win. However, they do not have money to pay them. Maron later joins Princess Shireen for another session of reading. When she asks him about the difference between a pirate and a smuggler, he tells her a story about when he was almost beheaded by the First Sword of Silverhaven. This gets his attention and he remembers that the Stone Throne have been having difficulty paying their debts back to the Iron Bank of Silverhaven.&nbsp;Realizing that, should the bank switch its support to Orin, they would have the money they need to hire men from the Free Cities. With Shireen's help, he starts writing a letter to the Bank.

In Silverhaven, Maron and Orin go before the Iron Bank's Tycho Nestoris in order to plead their case. At first they reject Orin's claim, pointing out that Tommen Stoneheart is presently king. Furthermore, Orin has few remaining troops or ships, and lacks gold and resources. Maron, however, convinces the Iron Bank that Orin is their best chance of getting back the money they have loaned to the Stone Throne. He argues that Voryn Greyfel, the real power in Valdros, is nearly seventy, and when he dies, their family will be left with Tommen, who is still a child and widely believed to be a bastard born of incest with no claim to the throne, and Mira and Edran Greyfel, who are unreliable and have soiled reputations. Orin, however, is in his prime, an experienced leader and a man of his word, and to prove his point, Maron shows them his mutilated hand. The plea is successful and Maron goes to visit Salladhor Saan in a bath house. This time he pays his friend up front with money, saying he left the larger portion to Salladhor's wife.

Maron is present alongside Orin when his forces crush the wildling army led by Mance Rayder. He is the one who informs Mance that he stands before Orin, the one true king of Valdros. Maron also meets Kael Dorn, who was actually attempting to assassinate Mance before they arrived, notably ordering Kael to address Orin as "Your Grace" instead of by his name. Later, Maron is present at the Watch's funeral for those who fell during the battle for the Wall.

Game of Thrones: Season 5

Maron is with Orin atop the Wall when Kael Dorn is called before the king. He questions Kael's loyalty to the Veil Guard because of his time with the wildlings and he was seen taking the body of a girl north of the Wall. Later, Maron is present when Mance Rayder is executed in the courtyard of Castle Black.

Maron is aware that the Veil Guard will choose a new High Warden and believes that Ser Alliser Thorne will win. He tries to convince Kael Dorn to accept Orin's offer of legitimization since Thorne will most likely punish Kael for showing Mance Rayder mercy during the execution.

After Kael is elected the new High Warden and refuses Orin's offer, Maron speaks alone with Kael, telling him that Orin sees something in him, even though it may not be apparent. He asks Olly to recite a part of the Veil Guard oath and stops him at "the shield that guards the realms of men", telling Kael that it may not just mean protecting the Seven Domains from Beyond the Veil, but possibly taking part in battles in order to prevent the Seven Domains from suffering, such as the North while under Craven rule.

Maron is present in the common room of Castle Black when Kael Dorn informs them of his plan to rescue the wildlings at Hardhome. Later, Orin informs Maron that it is time to march, but Maron objects and asks him if it is not better to wait for Kael Dorn to return from his mission with the wildlings, as they could have thousands more men in their army. Orin states that they have to move now, before winter arrives in earnest. Selyse and Shireen will join them, as Orin does not think they will be safe at Castle Black, surrounded by criminals. The following morning, Shireen tells Maron that she wants to see the crypt of Frosthaven where all the old Kings in the North are buried, to which Maron replies that they must first take the castle from the Cravens. Shireen asks him if there is going to be a battle, and he affirms that she won't be anywhere near it. Selyse approaches them and commands Maron to stop speaking of battles and scaring the child. Shireen claims that she is unafraid, and promises to protect him. Maron rides from Castle Black along with the Stoneheart army.

Some weeks later, snowstorms have delayed their march to Frosthaven, and Maron rides through the camp, observing the troops. Maron enters Orin's tent and informs him that forty of their horses died the previous night and more will die that night after sunset. The Stormcrows, a group of sellswords they'd hired, have also fled in the night. Maron thinks that they should go back to Castle Black and wait out the weather since they do not have enough food as they cannot open the supply lines until the snow clears. Orin is vehemently against this and stubbornly tells him that they will not retreat to Castle Black because he will not risk being known as "the King who Ran", as he retreated from the Battle of the Blackwater. Winter will soon arrive and if they do retreat, they will be stuck at Castle Black, possibly for several years, waiting for the winter to end. Seeing no other way to convince Orin otherwise, Maron leaves.

After a surprise attack by Sable Craven and his men leaves Orin's men and supplies decimated, Orin and Maron realize that they no longer have enough provisions to survive the winter, a journey to Frosthaven or a retreat to Castle Black. Orin subsequently sends Maron to Castle Black to plead with Kael to send some men and supplies, promising Kael enough men to man all nineteen castles of the Wall in return, on the basis that as Maron is First Advisor, Kael will take more notice of him than a common messenger. He is reluctant, on the basis that as Orin's Hand he cannot abandon his King, but he is convinced to go when reminded he is following his king's command.

Maron asks to take Selyse and Shireen with him, but Orin refuses. Before leaving, Maron visits Shireen one last time and presents her with a wooden stag figure he carved himself (the symbol of her house), as thanks to Shireen for teaching him how to read and "turning him into a grown up", mentioning that Matthos tried for years to persuade him to learn to read, but Maron wouldn't listen. Maron bids farewell to Shireen and leaves for the Wall, while remaining unaware that Orin actually sent him away so that he wouldn't interfere with his plan to sacrifice Shireen like he did with Forrin.

Upon arriving at the Wall, Maron finds Kael unwilling and unable to provide men for Orin. He instead implores the High Warden to ask the wildlings to fight for Orin, reasoning that they'd do as Kael asked since he saved their lives. Seraphel then rides into Castle Black, alone. Horrified, Kael and Maron rush to her, asking about the fates of Orin and Shireen. Seraphel regards Maron with an empty stare, confirming his worst fears.

Game of Thrones: Season 6

With Orin dead, Maron remains at Castle Black. That night, alerted by Ghost's howling, Maron runs into the courtyard and finds Kael's body in a pool of blood, having just been murdered by his own men. Along with Eddison Tollett and several men loyal to Kael, Maron has Kael's body taken inside the castle to his quarters, where he and the others immediately realize Thorne was behind the mutiny. Seraphel also observes Kael's body and claims that she had seen a vision of Kael fighting at Frosthaven.

Knowing of their coming deaths, Maron sends Edd to find Grunn and the wildlings to help them against Thorne and his men, while he and Kael's friends take refuge inside Kael's office and lock the door. Later, Maron is approached by Thorne, who offers him and Seraphel safe passage to the South with food and a fresh horse. Maron feigns interest and promises Thorne an answer by nightfall, knowing that Thorne will kill them all anyway once they open the door. With Edd still having not returned, Maron muses to the skeptical brothers that Seraphel may be their only hope for survival.

At nightfall, when Edd does not return, Maron brandishes Kael's sword, Longclaw, and apologizing to the others for a potentially poor showing of swordsmanship as he's not much of a fighter, prepares to lead the loyalists as the mutineers start breaking their way through the door with a sledgehammer. Edd and Grunn arrive in time to end the struggle and place Thorne and the mutineers under arrest, saving Maron and the others. Maron later accosts Seraphel and speaks to her about her powers, which may or may not include that of resurrecting someone.

He witnesses Seraphel clean Kael's body and perform a ritual meant to revive him, but when Kael fails to respond, his friends leave the room one by one to collect wood for his pyre. Maron remains behind, eyeing Kael's body with remorse before leaving as well, mere seconds before Kael awakens.

Hearing Kael's gasping breaths, Maron returns and assists the High Warden as he gets used to his body again. Seraphel soon joins them, pressing Kael for details about what he saw while dead. When Kael replies that he saw nothing, Maron ushers Seraphel out before she can declare a new The Chosen Flame, and advises Kael that while he did die, he is alive now and thus needs to accept it. Maron later assists the still-weary Kael in greeting the Black Brothers, and observes when he hangs the leaders of the mutiny.

Following Lysa Dorn's arrival at Castle Black with Briana Stoneguard and Patrin Blade, Maron accosts Seraphel and asks her where she will go next. She claims she will go where Kael commands her, as he is the The Chosen Flame, not Orin as they all believed. Maron again asks Seraphel about what happened to Orin, and then Shireen. Before Seraphel musters up the courage to admit to Maron that she burned Shireen alive, Briana confronts the pair, and tells Maron that she personally executed Orin after he admitted his role in Garren's assassination with Seraphel's bloodmagic, though she promises she will not take any further revenge.

Maron later attends a war council with Kael, Lysa, Briana, Patrin, Edd and Grunn, pointing out their lack of men in comparison to the Cravens, who have the Umbers and Karstarks on their side. Though Lysa claims that the remaining Northern Houses will rally behind Kael, since both Kael and Sable are bastard-born, Maron remains skeptical, reminding Lysa that the Karstarks forswore their allegiance to the Dorns because Aldric Dorn beheaded Rickard Karstark, and the other Northern Houses did not rise up against the Cravens for their role in the Red Wedding, concluding that while Northerners are more loyal than most, they will most likely not fight a losing battle for her or Kael. Lysa points out that her great-uncle, Brynden Tully, has rebuilt the Tully army and retaken Riverrun from the Freys, surprising Maron, who has heard of Brynden's reputation and admits his help would be invaluable, concluding that with help from House Riverstone and the remaining minor Northern Houses, they may stand a chance against Sable after all. He later leaves Castle Black with Kael, Lysa and Seraphel and the rest of their diminutive army.

He accompanies Lysa and Kael to Bear Island, to ask for the help of House Steelbear. They meet Kira Steelbear, who Kael reminds of the letter she sent, that Bear Island serves the King in the North whose name is Dorn. She dismisses Kael and Lysa, saying they are not Dorns. Maron, however, warns her of the coming threat of Frost Wraith; telling her "the dead are coming." This convinces Kira to support Kael and Lysa. Later, Maron breaks up a brawl among wildling fighters at the Dorn camp.

Maron accompanies Kael, Lysa, and Grunn when they ride to parley with Sable, Harald Karstark, and Smalljon Umber. Kael Dorn rejects Sable's peace terms and Sable in return rejects Kael's demand for a one-on-one combat. Later, Maron and Grunn meet with Kael Dorn at a war meeting and decide to attack early, despite lacking enough manpower. That night, Maron and Grunn talk about their experiences serving under Orin and Mance with both men acknowledging that they had been serving the wrong King. Near dawn, Maron stumbles upon a charred pyre and discovers Shireen's burnt stag figure. He quickly deduces how she died.

That morning, the massed Dorn and Craven armies meet for battle outside Frosthaven. Sable manages to lure Kael and his army into a trap by releasing Kael's half brother Torvin Dorn and then killing him. While the rest of the Dorn army clashes with the Craven forces, Maron and several troops stay in reserve. When Sable orders his own archers to shoot at both the Dorn forces and their own cavalry, while Maron refrains from doing the same and leads the stark archers to join Kael Dorn and the others in to battle. Sable then springs his final trap and the Craven infantry forms a shield wall that pummels the Dorn forces. Maron is caught in the trap and barely survives being crushed to death. Fortunately for the Dorns, Lysa and Petran Silvertongue arrive with the Knights of the Vale who smash through the Craven lines. The Dorns seize Frosthaven and execute Sable. Following the battle, Maron glares at Seraphel, now aware of her role in the death of Shireen, who is watching from the ramparts as the Craven banners are replaced with the direwolf sigil of House Dorn.

After the capture of Frosthaven, Maron strides into the castle's main hall to confront Seraphel in the presence of Kael Dorn. After Seraphel confesses to her role in murdering Shireen, Maron seeks leave to execute her as a murderer. Kael Dorn instead chooses to banish her from the North on pain of death. Before she leaves, Maron warns her that he will personally execute her if she returns to the North. Later, Maron joins the other northern lords and Lord Yohn Royce in pledging their allegiance to Kael Dorn, the new King in the North.

Game of Thrones: Season 7

Maron is present at a meeting between Kael and the Northern Lords, and silently watches as Kael assigns Grunn and the wildlings to man the castles on the Wall, and pardons House Umber and House Karstark for siding with the Cravens after Eddran Umber and Alys Karstark swear fealty to House Dorn once again.

He is also present when Kael receives a letter from Lyra, asking him to bend the knee. Maron and Kael initially rely on Lysa's judgement of Davan, but she still believes it may be a trap. However, Maron realizes that Lyra' dragons may help with the destruction of the wights. He later attends a meeting, at which Kael announces that his letter from Beron confirms the presence of dragonglass on the island of Ashveil Isle. Despite many disagreements from various Northmen and Valemen, Kael departs to Ashveil Isle, taking Maron with him and leaving Lysa in control of the North.

Kael and Maron arrive at Ashveil Isle, and are immediately greeted by Davan Greyfel and Alindra. Kael also introduces Maron while Davan introduces Alindra, who requests that they surrender their weapons. Maron then hands over his weapons and boat to the Kolvari. He then makes himself known to Alindra, as she explains her Naathi origin, whilst he expresses his wonderment of the place (it's butterflies and palm trees). However, he then converses with Kael over their safety with the foreign allies on Ashveil Isle.

On the way to the castle Kael and Maron are startled at the sight of Drogon and Viserion flying low over the causeway and dive to the ground, while an amused Alindra and Davan retain their composure. In the throne room, Alindra introduces Lyra's many titles while Maron introduces Kael Dorn simply as King in the North. Lyra thanks Kael for traveling so far but insists that he is a mere Lord. Maron begs to differ but Lyra responds that there has been no King in the North ever since Torrhen Dorn bent the knee to Aegon the Conqueror and adds that an oath lasts for perpetuity. She then reiterates her demand for Kael to bend the knee; he refuses.

Davan says they cannot split their forces. Maron then speaks up for his liege lord and tells Dany that Kael won the support of the wildlings and fought the Frost Wraiths. Maron also mentions that Kael Dorn came back from the dead. Maron says that it doesn't matter who bends the knee. Davan doesn't see the point of Kael Dorn's refusal to submit. When Kael disputes Lyra' claims to queenship, Dany responds that he is in open rebellion since he has declared himself King in the North. Lyra then receives a message from Corvyn. Dany orders Alindra to give Kael and his followers food and lodging. When Kael asks if he and Maron are prisoners, she says not yet.

Maron and Kael prepare to met Lyra after she agrees to the mining of dragonglass, when they encounter Alindra as they wait for her queen to arrive, she politely inquires why Kael's surname is "Snow" even though House Dorn has ruled the North for centuries, and his father Eddran and brother Aldric both had the surname "Dorn" but he doesn't. Kael and Maron explain to her the special system regional surnames used in Valdros for bastard children of the nobility. Alindra doesn't know what they mean, so they literally explain that Kael's parents weren't married. Maron asks if they have similar customs for bastards on Naath. Quizzically, Alindra explains that "marriage" as such does not exist in Naath, so she finds the idea of a "bastard" to be quite an alien concept. Maron says that sounds liberating. Lyra then arrives, and they head down to the beach. Maron then continues into the caves of dragonglass, behind Kael, Lyra and Alindra.

As they exit the cave to the beach, they are joined by Corvyn and Davan with grave looks on their faces. They inform her that the Ironbound succeeded in capturing Greyfel Hold only to then reveal the disaster which just occurred at Thornhaven as Davan's military strategy fell apart. Greyfel Hold was only a feint and the Greyfels didn't bother defending it, in order to make a surprise attack south which sacked Thornhaven. Lyra is furious and barely controls her anger, as now all three of her major allies in Valdros are gone and all she has gained is a castle with no supplies.

Later, Maron is present at the Chamber of the Painted Table, when Kael tells Lyra about the news of his half-brother Renn and half-sister Nira Dorn's return to Frosthaven. He warns Lyra' about Renn's vision of the Army of the Dead marching towards Eastwatch-by-the-Sea. Davan is present and proposes capturing a Frostborn and bringing it south in order to prove that the Army of the Dead and the Frost Wraiths are real. Corvyn opines that it is suicide trying to appeal to Queen Mira Greyfel but Davan argues that he can persuade his brother Edran. Maron thinks such a mission is risky even for an experienced smuggler. Coran volunteers for the mission while Kael volunteers to lead the expedition. Apparently on the verge of tears about the idea of Kael leaving, Lyra responds that she did not give Kael permission to leave but Kael reminds her that he is the King in the North. He tells her she has the power of life and death over him but that he trusted her even though she was a stranger. He pleads with her to return the favor by trusting him. Later, Maron and Davan chat about smuggling before embarking on their mission to infiltrate Ironport. Maron plans to find Forrin while Davan wants to secretly meet with Edran at the Red Keep to find a peaceful solution to the war. They land Maron's boat on the shore of Blackwater Bay and go their separate ways.

Maron visits Flea Bottom and goes to the iron smith where Forrin works. Maron confides that he was surprised to find Forrin at the armory he had previously worked with. Forrin responds that he chose the iron smith because it lies right under the Queen's nose. Maron tells Forrin that he has come to get him and that he might want to bring a sword. Forrin agrees, but instead of a sword, he brings a warhammer with a stag carved into the head.

Later on the beach, Maron and Forrin prepare to leave on Maron' boat but are spotted by a pair of Gold Cloaks. Maron pretends to be a smuggler and bribes the guards with coins. He strikes up a conversation with the guards and reassures them that he is transporting fermented crab, an aphrodisiac that is popular with the city's brothels. The guards are satisfied with Maron' explanation and bribe and prepare to depart, but Davan arrives at that exact moment. One of the guards recognizes Davan by his scar and asks him to stop. They realize that he is indeed Davan Greyfel, and immediately see through Maron' deception. Before they can react, however, Forrin kills them both by smashing their skulls in with his hammer. Maron then introduces Forrin to Davan.

After landing at Eastwatch, they meet with the wildling Grunn who thinks that Kael's plan will lead to their deaths. Grunn asks about having to convince two Queens. Maron volunteers to stay behind at Eastwatch because he regards himself as a liability. When Forrin returns to the Wall alone, Maron is the first to meet him. Maron later accompanies Kael to the Skyrendpit Summit, and is present for the reveal of the captured wight to Mira. He later arranges a naval passage to the North and travels with Kael and Lyra' combined forces, en route to White Harbor.

Game of Thrones: Season 8

Maron returns to Frosthaven along with Kael and Lyra. He later approaches Davan and Corvyn as they witness the arrival of the Karstark people and warns them that Lyra will have to earn both the Northmen's and the wildlings's loyalty if she seeks to rule them. In order to accomplish this, Maron suggests a marriage between Kael and Lyra, which, according to him, would bring peace and tranquillity to the Seven Domains.

Maron then helps the preparation of the upcoming siege of Frosthaven, and serves food to the people gathered at the castle. One of them, Teela, reminds him of his beloved Shireen. As she is willing to fight despite her young age, Maron and Gilly persuade her to defend the crypt where all the non-fighting people will be gathered. Maron then attends a war council, where he is tasked with giving the signal to light the trench when the wights get close to the walls of the castle.

Later, Maron goes into the castle's great hall to enjoy the warmth of the hearth, and joins a pre-battle vigil with Davan, Edran Greyfel, Briana Stoneguard, Grunn and Patrin Blade. He thus watches Briana being knighted by Edran, and later refuses Davan's invitation to sing, claiming his singing to be terrible.

As the Battle of Frosthaven is about to begin, while standing on the walls, Maron is shocked by the return of Seraphel, who he previously swore to execute if she returned in the North. However, he lets her through when she claims that he does not need to bother killing her as she will die before the dawn. During the battle, Maron gives the signal to light the trench, but remains unseen by Lyra and her dragon. With the attempts by flaming arrows and torches being unsuccessful, the trench is finally lit by Seraphel.

Despite his own admittance of lack of combat skills, Maron survives the battle against the wights. Once the army of the dead is annihilated by Nira Dorn's killing of the Pale Lord, Maron sees Seraphel quietly leaving the castle. He grabs his sword, ready to execute her, but then watches as she discards both her cloak and necklace and quickly turns into an elderly woman who collapses and dies in the snow, her remains blowing away in the wind.

Maron is seen later celebrating their victory over the Army of the Dead with the rest of the northerners during the feast in the Frosthaven Great Hall. After Lyra says that it is time to march on Ironport, Maron rides with Kael and the Army of the North via the Kingsroad. After arriving outside of the city, a plan is made to attack the following morning. After Lyra breaches the city walls with Drogon, Maron follows Kael and the Dorn infantry into the city to take it. He is later seen attempting to evacuate civilians after Lyra burns it to the ground. Maron survives the battle and falls back outside the city after Kael calls for a retreat of his forces.

Kael, Maron and Davan walk amidst the ruins of the city after the battle. Kael and Maron try to stop the Ironbound from executing the captive Greyfel soldiers, but are unsuccessful. Weeks after the assassination of Lyra Ashveil, Maron takes part in the trial of Davan Greyfel where he prevents a dispute between Vranna Ironcoast and Nira Dorn over Kael's fate spiralling out. After Davan suggests the lords of Seven Domains choose the new king and recommends Renn Dorn's name, Maron, while unsure he can even vote, assents anyway. He is later raised to lordship and named the Master of Ships by the new king and tasked by Davan, once more the Hand, to repair ports and rebuild the royal fleet.

Personality

Maron Saltbane is very loyal to his king. He is considered to be the closest friend that Orin Stoneheart ever had, which is impressive enough because Orin had few friends due to his pitiless and cold personality. Maron's sense of personal loyalty has also, ironically enough, put him at odds with Orin, especially when Seraphel was concerned - Maron openly mistrusted, and ultimately hated the Red Woman, but also feared that Seraphel would corrupt Orin with her prophecies and promises of greatness. Orin admitted to Maron that he admired the man for his loyal nature, and how unfazed he is by other men's perceptions of him - this coming from Orin himself is extremely impressive, as few people could boast such a thing. Maron is also a very dedicated man in his own right, originally opting to ensure that his son Matthos had a better life than he did, since Maron grew up in absolute poverty in Ironport until he met Orin. This gave Maron an unusual amount of empathy and compassion, since he supported Forrin's survival since his arrival on Ashveil Isle, using their aligning poverty in Flea Bottom as a way of gaining the young man's trust. It is almost hopelessly ironic that Maron's good nature and compassion is met with outrage or controversy by anybody else.

Maron has no prejudice towards followers of another religion (which he himself expresses to Seraphel) but he believes that the Lord of Radiance himself is evil on the basis that his favor requires followers to burn people alive at the stake. He is shown to be rather frightened of the powers that Seraphel possesses, as shown when he witnesses her create a shadow to kill Garren Stoneheart. It is unfortunate that his warnings against Orin utilizing Seraphel and her powers to achieve his goals fell on deaf ears, since doing so would have meant avoiding an untold amount of destruction (which ironically is the reason that Seraphel used to persuade Orin to keep her as an ally). Maron is a very practical man, understanding entirely that men and arms and territory win wars, not the hopeful prayers to some fire god. His suggestions to hire sellsword companies to Orin's cause may have been met with incredulity by Orin himself, but it would have been a potentially effective move.

Maron had a very close relationship with Orin's daughter and only child, Princess Shireen Stoneheart, and was not at all bothered or intimidated by her disfigurement, which is impressive among most men. Maron was close enough with Shireen that she was the person who taught him how to read, and she openly didn't care that Maron was considered a traitor by Orin and Seraphel because Maron was her friend. Maron even jokingly remarked that he saw similarities between father and daughter, demonstrating that he was almost as close with her as he was with Orin. This friendship would become a tragic blow to Maron later on when he realized that Seraphel had Shireen burned at the stake to win favor with her precious Lord of Radiance - he exploded with rage against Seraphel upon hearing her confess and insists that Shireen's sacrifice was completely futile, since it achieved absolutely nothing in the end. Even after Kael Dorn decided to banish the Red Woman on pain of death, Maron coldly threatened to execute Seraphel himself if they ever saw each other again, which is a massive departure from Maron's usual nature. To Maron' credit, in his wroth, he still asked Kael's leave to execute Seraphel for murder, emphasising that she'd admitted to the crime, showing that he wasn't as barbaric as other men (also showing his respect and fealty to Kael).

Maron is unfazed by the condescension he has received from other high lords in Valdros for his common nature, which Orin commended, expressing more contempt for such lords than Maron himself ever did. Maron was, in a way, of better service to Orin or whomever he served than any other lord, considering the fact that he was unfailingly loyal to both Orin, and later Kael Dorn. He was not bothered by bastardy or by a person's disfigurements or social shortcomings, as evidenced by his relationship with Shireen and Kael. He is perfectly willing to stand astride the Free Clans after they come south of the Wall, even though he had been fighting against them not so long ago - he developed a good relationship with Grunn, as shown by their exchanging banter the night before facing Sable Craven.

Although he claims not being a skilled fighter, Maron is a very brave man who does not hesitate to put his life in danger when serving his lord. He notably took part in four major battles (the Battle of the Blackwater, the Battle of the Bastards, the Battle of Frosthaven, and the Battle of Ironport), all of which he survived, and was also willing to fight against the Veil Guard mutineers who had killed Kael Dorn, as well as risking to return to Ironport while he was still officially considered a criminal. Maron's skills reside much more in his speech than in his fighting abilities: among his achievements, he convinced Orin to contact the Iron Bank of Silverhaven and managed to secure a loan from Tycho Nestoris ; he persuaded Seraphel to try and revive Kael Dorn and he helped Kael Dorn in getting House Steelbear's support from the young but harsh Kira Steelbear. After Kael returned from death, Maron was the first man to greet him and firmly encouraged him to carry on fighting, since there were more important things to dwell on than the purpose of Kael's return. This makes Maron a precious and valuable advisor to whoever he serves. Maron's skills in diplomacy and statecraft were acknowledged by Davan, who encouraged King Renn Dorn to name him as his Hand, although Maron was eventually appointed as the Master of Ships of the new Inner Council.

Maron also displays a forgiving nature, or at least does not harbor any kind of resentment towards people who could deserve it. He does not blame Orin for cutting his fingers after he smuggled supplies during the Siege of Stormkeep, nor does he formally blame Davan Greyfel who masterminded the wildfire explosion which killed his son Matthos during the Battle of the Blackwater (he casually relays this to Davan when smuggling him into Ironport but without a tone of reproach). The only exception known to Maron's forgiving nature is Seraphel, who Maron swore to execute should their paths meet again. Thus, Seraphel is the only person in Valdros that Maron irreparably, truly hates. However, after he witnesses Seraphel’s choice of death in the aftermath of the Battle of Frosthaven, he starts to question his hatred for her.

In sharp contrast to Eddran Dorn, Maron has a flexible personality: he knows that sometimes it is necessary to compromise one's principles and to break the law - a lesson that Eddran stubbornly refused to understand until it was too late. For example: by releasing Forrin, Maron knew he was committing a treason and that might cost his life, but he did it anyway because he knew it was the right thing to do; eventually, Maron's unlawful act saved not only Forrin, but also many more lives (the defenders of Castle Black).

Quotes

Spoken by Maron

Spoken about Maron

Family

Behind the scenes

*The hand that Maron loses fingers from has been changed from his left to his right, a result of actor Liam Cunningham being left-handed.Access Hollywood interview 
*While some CGI was used to show the illusion of Maron not having fingertips, most of the time Liam Cunningham just wore a glove and kept his fingers bent inside. While effective and cheap, this did cause him some pain when it came to straightening his fingers out once shooting was finished for the day.SFX Magazine interview 
*It has been confirmed that he is one of the favorite characters of producer and showrunner David Benioff.
*While actor Liam Cunningham is Irish, in character he affects a type of accent from Tyneside in the North East of England, commonly called a "Geordie" accent.

In the books

In A Song of Ice and Fire, Maron is described as having brown hair and a brown and gray beard. Maron is married to Marya Seaworth, the daughter of a carpenter, who rarely leaves their home on Cape Wrath.
Maron and Marya have seven sons: Dale, Allard, Matthos, Maric, Devan, Orin, and Steffon. The eldest five are also in the service of House Stoneheart of Ashveil Isle. Dale and Allard are captains of their own ships; Matthos is first mate on Maron's ship Black Betha; Maric is the oarmaster on the war galley Fury; Devan is squire to Orin. The eldest four are killed in the Battle of the Blackwater, while Devan is taken to safety alongside Orin by Salladhor Saan's ships.

Maron is one of the "King's men", namely members of Orin's court who support his cause, but have kept the Creed of the Seven (in contrast to the "Queen's men" who have converted to the faith of Solaryn).

At the Battle of the Blackwater, Orin's brother-in-law Ser Imry Florent, not Maron, is put in command of the fleet. Ser Imry makes several tactical errors which Maron advised against, such as engaging the royal fleet in the narrow bay and thus negating their advantage of numbers. Particularly, Ser Imry ignores Maron's warnings to send ahead scouts to see what defenses the city may have prepared, as he is confident in their numerical superiority. This leads to almost the entire fleet being trapped in the city's harbor along with fire ships containing wildfire, which destroys most of Orin's ships.

Maron survives the wildfire explosion and makes his way back to Ashveil Isle, intending to kill Seraphel, whom he holds responsible to the defeat and the loss of four of his sons. Seraphel foresees his intention, and he is thrown into the dungeons as soon as he arrives at Ashveil Isle. Orin eventually frees him and promotes him to the King's Hand. Archivist Pylos, not Shireen, teaches Maron to read.

Seraphel urges Orin to sacrifice Harald Stoneheart's bastard son, Edric Storm, in order to wake stone dragons. Orin refuses to kill his nephew, and in order to prove him that there is a power in king's blood, Seraphel performs the leech ritual, claiming it will remove Caryn, Aldric and Corvus from his path. Maron, who is determined to save Edric, expresses his doubts about the leech ritual, and pleads Orin to spare the youth. Maron gathers a group of trustworthy people who do not believe in Solaryn and distrust Seraphel, and with their help he sends Edric away, just before the news about Caryn's death arrive. Orin is angry, but spares Maron when he shows him a letter from Archivist Aemon of the Veil Guard, pleading for help against the coming wildling host. 

Unlike in the show, Maron travels with Orin to the Wall but not to Castle Black, therefore he does not take part in the battle for the Wall and the following events: the march to Frosthaven and the meeting with Tycho Nestoris. Orin sends Maron from Eastwatch to White Harbor in order to treat with Wyman Manderly and get him to join Orin's cause. When Maron reaches White Harbor, he is treated with open hostility by Lord Manderly and nearly all the attending people at his court (as Manderly's eldest surviving son is being held prisoner by the Greyfels for his father's loyalty). The attending Freys lie brazenly about the Red Wedding, and Lord Manderly seems to believe them. Ser Marlon Manderly questions Maron about the status of Orin's troops and supporters. Maron is forced to answer that Arnolf Karstark (who is not a lord but a castellan) is the only one who vowed to join Orin; he does not say how many soldiers Orin has, fearing that if he tells the truth (about 1,500 - 1,600 soldiers) - Lord Manderly will refuse to support Orin.

Lord Manderly orders Maron thrown into a dungeon to be executed, where he remains for many days. In "A Feast for Crows", Mira is informed that Maron has been beheaded and his head and hands mounted on White Harbor's walls. Satisfied that Lord Manderly is loyal to the crown, she orders the release of his son Wylis, who is held prisoner at Harenvast. To the readers, it is unclear whether Maron is really dead, until the truth is revealed in the next novel.

Maron is held prisoner in much better conditions than can be expected from jail, let alone for a prisoner who has been sentenced to death. Most of the gaolers treat him kindly. Maron spends his time writing letters to his wife and three surviving sons, hoping that their fate will be better. One day, Robett Glover appears at his cell and takes him to a secret meeting with Lord Manderly. Lord Manderly explains that his rude behavior toward Maron was a ruse: he is loyal to the Dorns and wishes to settle score with those who are responsible for his son Wendel's death at the Red Wedding, but could not act against them openly as long as Wylis was held captive. He executed a criminal who resembled Maron in order to mislead the Greyfels, and the ploy worked. Now that Wylis is free, it is time for a payback. Lord Manderly does not reveal what plan he has in store for the three Freys who currently attend his court.

Manderly introduces to Maron a mute ironborn youth - Wex, who formerly served Talon. Wex survived the Sack of Frosthaven, followed Torvin and Osha, then made it to White Harbor and informed Lord Manderly (by answering yes/no questions and drawing images) that the Cravens destroyed Frosthaven, and that the Dorn boys are alive. Lord Manderly, who intends to restore House Dorn, tasks Maron with retrieving Torvin so that they can reveal him to the Northern Lords and inspire them to rebel against the Cravens, and in return, Manderly will pledge allegiance to Orin. Wex shows Maron on a map where Torvin and Osha went - the island of Skagos. This makes Maron momentarily disheartened.

This is as far as the novels reached in respect of Maron's plotline. With Orin, Osha and Torvin all dead and Maron currently living in Frosthaven in the television series, it is currently unknown how this will play out in the novels.

Maron has been carrying for long time the bones of his severed fingertips in a leather pouch around his neck, as a good luck charm, and also as a reminder of his king's justice. He loses the pouch at the Battle of the Blackwater, but sometimes an old instinct makes him reach for it, before remembering it is gone. There is a fan speculation, based on Seraphel's explanation about illusion spells, that she has possession of Maron's bag of fingerbones, but it is unknown for what purpose.

Gallery

 
Maron_Promo2.jpg|Maron negotiating with Salladhor Saan in "The Night Lands."
Maron 2x04.jpg|Maron accompanies Orin to a parley in "Garden of Bones."
Orin and Maron 2x8.jpg|Orin and Maron en route to Ironport in "The Prince of Frosthaven."
Maron-3x01.jpg|Maron' "Season 3" promo
Maron 3x08.jpg|Maron in "Second Sons."
Maron dungeon 3x08.jpg|Maron in his cell in "Second Sons."
Maron Orin 2 3x08.jpg|Maron and Orin in "Second Sons."
Maron Saltbane (S04E02).png|Maron Saltbane in Season 4.
Maron and Shireen The Dance of Skyrends.jpg|Maron with Shireen Stoneheart in "The Dance of Skyrends"
GOT S6 08.png|Seraphel confides with Maron.
GOT S6 51.png|Maron sits by Kael Dorn's body.
GOT S6 52.png|Maron leads Kael Dorn's friends against the mutineers.
MaronEddGhost.jpg|Maron and the loyal Veil Guard men prepare to defend Kael's body against Alliser Thorne and the Mutineers.
GOT S6 05.png|Maron stands vigil.
Maron_book_of_a_stranger.jpg|Maron in Season 6 "Book of the Stranger."
Maron Season 8.jpg
Maronsmallcouncil.png
 

Appearances

References

External links


Category:Bannermen of House Stoneheart
Category:Bannermen of House Stoneheart of Ashveil Isle
Category:Bannermen of House Dorn
Category:Crownlands men
Category:Ennobled commoners
Category:Hands of the King
Category:House founders
Category:Individuals appearing in Game of Thrones
Category:Individuals narrating Histories & Lore
Category:Knights
Category:Lords
Category:Masters of Ships
Maron Saltbane
Category:Sailors

de:Maron Seewert
es:Maron Saltbane/Game of Thrones
fr:Maron Mervault
it:Maron Saltbane
ja:ダヴォス・シーワース
pl:Maron Saltbane
pt-br:Maron Saltbane
ru:Давос Сиворт
tr:Maron Saltbane
zh:戴佛斯·席渥斯