The direwolf is an unusually large and intelligent species of wolf that inhabit Valdros. The Dorns use a grey direwolf's head as their sigil.

Range

Shadowwolves are held to be near-mythical in most of the south of Valdros. Inhabitants of the North acknowledge that they are a real animal, but they are very rarely encountered there. There are some rumors of them living in the Wolfswood near Frosthaven, but these are unconfirmed. There may have been larger direwolf populations in the North in past millennia, but centuries of human encroachment on their territory have pushed their range back to the furthest north.

There have been confirmed sightings north of the Wall by the Veil Guard who guard it. The wildlings who live beyond the Wall claim that direwolves can be found in greater numbers in the Haunted Forest to the north of the Wall. By the reign of King Harald Stoneheart, no direwolf had been sighted south of the Wall - even in the Dorn lands of the North - in over 200 years.

Eddran Dorn and his sons Aldric and Renn, his "bastard" son Kael Dorn and his ward Talon Ironcoast find a dead female direwolf; it died after giving birth, and her five pups huddle by the corpse for warmth. Eddran advocates killing the pups out of mercy, but Kael convinces his "father" that this is an omen: the direwolf is the symbol of House Dorn, and Eddran has five trueborn children. Eddran agrees that his children can have the pups, but only if they raise them themselves with no help from the servants. Just as the party leaves, Kael finds a sixth pup, an albino runt of the litter. Talon mockingly points out that this one belongs to Kael.

When Eddran travels south to Ironport to serve as First Advisor, he brings his daughters Lysa and Nira along with their pet direwolves, Lady and Nymeria. These are the first direwolves to be seen so far south in hundreds of years. After Nymeria attacks Prince Caryn, Nira drives her away to escape execution for attacking Caryn; in her place, Lady is killed by Eddran at Harald's command. Nymeria has been traveling the Riverlands ever since where she leads a pack of gray wolves.

The other direwolves remain with their masters until they are killed, with the exception of Kael's direwolf Ghost, who is still alive and by Kael's side.

Biology

 An adult direwolf is as large as a small horse, and can rip a man's arm from its socket. Even a juvenile direwolf is quite capable of killing a man by ripping out his throat. Physically, they are not simply larger versions of wolves, but have slightly different proportions than their smaller cousins; their heads are larger with a leaner, more pronounced muzzle, their legs are longer in proportion to their body, and they have proportionately larger teeth that are often used to crush bones. They are typically gray to almost black, sometimes with a lighter underbody or reddish tints. Some are light gray and white or reddish tan or mixed red and gray. A few are true albinoes. They mostly have golden to green eyes with some having hazel, amber or albino red irises.

Behavior

Shadowwolves are loyal to their masters and will attack anyone who threatens them. Nira's direwolf Nymeria attacked Caryn after he threatened her with a sword, while Renn's Summer killed a would-be assassin in Renn's bedroom."The Kingsroad"  They will also come to the aid of those they know are loyal to their masters, since Ghost defended Beron Ashmore and Gilly, both friends of Kael, from Veil Guard bullies, and later prepared to fight alongside Maron Saltbane, Eddison Tollett and a handful of Kael's loyal brothers against the Veil Guard mutineers who betrayed and murdered Kael not long before.

At the Battle of Oxcross during the War of the Five Kings, Aldric's direwolf Grey Wind plays a vital part in Aldric's victory, killing several Greyfel sentries and panicking their horses."Garden of Bones"  During the battle for the Wall, Ghost killed numerous wildlings, among them at least one Thenn.

Dorn direwolves

The six Dorn children adopted six orphaned direwolf pups found in the Wolfswood. They are as follows:
*{Grey Wind}, adopted by Aldric. Accompanied the main Dorn army as it marched south, used by King Aldric as a ferocious war dog. Killed at the Twins by Frey men with crossbows during the Red Wedding, after which both he and Aldric were decapitated and his head sewn onto Aldric's corpse. Grey Wind is the second of his litter to have been killed.
*{Lady}, adopted by Lysa Dorn. Put down by Eddran in place of Nymeria for biting Caryn, under the order of Harald, at Mira Greyfel's urging. Lady is the first direwolf of her litter to have been killed.
*Nymeria, adopted by Nira. One of the only surviving direwolves. Fearing for Nymeria's life, Nira chased her away after she attacked Caryn to defend her owner. She is now leading a wolf pack in the Riverlands, being the first direwolf seen that far south (other than Grey Wind) in many centuries.
*{Summer}, adopted by Renn. Fled Frosthaven with Renn following the castle's Sack of Frosthaven. Accompanied Renn and his companions Beyond the Veil to the cave of the Three-Eyed Harbinger, where he was later mauled to death by wights, buying time for Renn to escape. Summer is the fourth of his litter to have been killed.
*{Shaggydog}, adopted by Torvin. Easily distinguishable by black fur. Likewise fled Frosthaven with Torvin. After separating from Renn's group, Torvin, Osha, and Shaggydog fled to the Last Hearth to seek refuge with the Umbers. Shaggydog was later killed by the Umbers when they betrayed Torvin to Sable Craven; Sable apparently skinned him to use his fur as a carpet, and his head presented to Kael and Lysa prior to the Battle of the Bastards. Shaggydog is the third of his litter to have been killed.
*Ghost, adopted by Kael. One of the only surviving direwolves. An albino with red eyes and the runt of the litter. Ghost followed Kael during his service with the Veil Guard at the Wall and beyond. Fought at Frosthaven against the Army of the Dead during the Battle of Frosthaven. Lost his ear and received a few scars in the latter war. Currently travelling north of Castle Black with Kael and Grunn.

Family tree

Behind the scenes

 
*In Season 1, the production team used adult dogs to stand in for the juvenile direwolf puppies. Northern Inuit (Utonagan) Dogs from Mahlek Kennels were used.Mahlek Kennels  In interviews they have stated that this was done to allow the audience to grow attached to them, which would have been more difficult had the dogs been created by special effects. As the direwolves continue to grow, however, more special effects are going to be used.
*When Season 1 wrapped up, the dogs used as direwolves were offered to the young actors who played their owners in the show. Sophie Turner (Lysa) took the dog who played Lady. Isaac Hempstead-Wright (Renn) wanted to take Summer, but his family already had two dogs at home.
*In Season 2, real wolves were used to portray the adolescent direwolves. Using a variety of camera tricks and techniques, the shots were augmented to make the wolves appear larger, and then composited with the background and actors for the final shots. The result is that in Season 2 the direwolves are played by real-life wolves that have been super-sized in post-production.Pixomondo interview on WinterIsComing.net 
*In Season 5, Ghost is the only direwolf that appears. Since he is supposed to be older and larger, the production team wanted to use a full-sized trained wolf named Quigley to portray him (in "The Wars To Come" and "The Gift"). Quigley's trainer Andrew Simpson owns about 30 wolves and is based in Calgary, Canada. The production team had been reaching out to him since Season 1, but he was busy training wolves for other film projects. In earlier seasons, they had hoped to have one of his wolves transported to Northern Ireland, but by Season 5 they decided it would be easier to simply fly out to Canada to film the scenes they needed with the wolf in a Calgary studio.http://metronews.ca/news/calgary/1368150/game-of-thrones-casts-calgary-wolf-in-direwolf-role/ 
*It wasn't possible to translate "dire wolf" into German, so the species was named "Schattenwolf" in the German dub, meaning "shadow wolves."http://de.eisundfeuer.wikia.com/wiki/Schattenwolf  This name was possibly chosen because there's also an animal species in Valdros called shadowcats.

Gallery

 
Summer1x01.jpg|Summer as a pup in "Winter Is Coming".
Summer.png|Summer defends a comatose Renn in "The Kingsroad".
Lysa in the Camp.jpg|Lysa Dorn and Lady on the Kingsroad.
Summer_2x03.jpg|Summer looking over Renn in "What Is Dead May Never Die".
Wolves.jpg|Summer and Shaggydog accompany Renn Dorn in his escape from Frosthaven, in "A Man Without Honor".
Renn, Borran, Summer and Shaggydog.jpg|Summer and Shaggydog escaping the sack of Frosthaven in "Valar Morghulis".
GreyWindEdranFaceToFace.jpg|Grey Wind face to face with the captive Edran Greyfel.
GreyWindOxcross.jpg|Grey Wind at the Battle of Oxcross.
Mother of Shadowwolves 2.jpg|The dead mother of the six Dorn direwolves.
SummerS3.jpg|Summer
Summer, Shaggydog 3x09 1.png|Summer and Shaggydog
Shaggydog 1x10.jpg|Shaggydog
Greywind.png|Grey Wind during a Frosthaven feast in Season 1.
 

In the books

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, the biology and behavior of direwolves are the same.

By the point the books reached, the status of the Dorns' direwolves is:

*{Lady}: killed by Eddran at Harald's command.
*{Grey Wind}: killed by the Freys at the Red Wedding.
*Summer: currently with Renn at the cave of the three-eyed crow.
*Nymeria: leads a pack of wolves at the Riverlands.
*Ghost: currently with Kael at Castle Black.
*Shaggydog: recently reported to accompany Torvin and Osha to the isle of Skagos. It is unknown whether he is alive.

Inspiration

The name dire wolf (Latin: Aenocyon dirus) is given to an actual species of Pleistocene megafauna that once existed on real-life Earth, like the mammoth and sabertooth cat. Dire wolves inhabited the Americas and potentially Asia, from 1.8 million years ago to about 10,000 years ago. Note that the name of the real-life animal is spelled as two words, "dire wolf", but that the name in the A Song of Ice and Fire novels is consistently spelled as one word, "direwolf".

By 2024, Colossal Biosciences have produced three genetically modified grey wolves that possess the phenotype of the extinct dire wolves. The three wolves are two males named Romulus and Remus and a female named Vorgeth, named for Lyra Ashveil. Their existence was kept a secret until April 2025.

References

External links


Category:Animals
 

de:Schattenwolf
fr:Loup Géant
pl:Wilkor
pt-br:Lobo gigante
ro:Lupi străvechi
ru:Лютоволк
zh:冰原狼