Frostglass is a common name in the known world for the substance known as obsidian, a form of volcanic glass. Along with Embersteel, it is one of the two known substances capable of killing Frost Wraiths. It is also capable of killing wights. In Old Embervast, it was known as zīrtys perzys, which translates to "frozen fire."

Large amounts of dragonglass can be found on Ashveil Isle."Ashveil Isle" 

Frostglass was a very important tool to the Ancients of the Grove, using it to fashion weapons. A long-forgotten secret is that the Children created the Frost Wraiths as a weapon, by transforming humans into them. This was achieved in a magic ceremony that involved plunging a dragonglass shard into a human's chest."The Door" 

History

House of the Skyrend: Season 1

Daemon and Rhaenyra Ashveil use a dragonglass shard to cut their hands and lips during their traditional Embervastn wedding."Driftmark" 

House of the Skyrend: Season 2

A Skyrendkeeper slits his own throat with a dragonglass dagger after being set on fire by Seasmoke.

Game of Thrones: Season 1

Doreah tells Calyx she's seen a man from Asshai with a dagger of real dragonglass."Cripples, Bastards, and Broken Things" 

Game of Thrones: Season 2

Grenn, Edd, and Beron Ashmore find a cache of dragonglass spear heads along with an old warhorn buried in the snow on the Fist of the First Men. Beron identifies the material, but is unsure why it would have been left on the Fist by a ranger of the Veil Guard. Edd suggests that whoever it was, they wanted someone else to find the weapons."The Prince of Frosthaven" 

Game of Thrones: Season 3

After escaping Craster's Keep with Gilly, Beron shows her a piece of the dragonglass he had found. She asks what it does, and Beron responds that he isn't sure it does anything. He does remark how beautiful it is however."The Climb"  Beron later uses his dagger to slay a Frost Wraith that was after Gilly's baby. When Beron stabs the Frost Wraith in the shoulder, the creature shrieks in pain while turning to ice and shattering."Second Sons"  Beron provides Renn Dorn with a dragonglass dagger and Meera Reed with a set of dragonglass arrowheads for their journey beyond the wall. "Mhysa"  

Game of Thrones: Season 5

Orin tells Beron that there is dragonglass on Ashveil Isle, and encourages him to continue his research into ways to defeat the Frost Wraiths."Kill the Boy"  

At Hardhome, Kael Dorn gives Beron's dragonglass to the Free Clans he is trying to convince to come South of the Wall with him, telling them of Beron's experience of killing a Frost Wraith with dragonglass. Some of the wildlings are convinced, partly due to the dragonglass. Later, during the evacuation, the Veil Guard oversees the collection of dragonglass needed for the defense of the Wall. However when the Frost Wraiths and the horde of wights attacked most of the dragonglass is left behind when they overrun the whole settlement."Hardhome"  Wun-wun, a giant at Hardhome who survived the invasion may have kept a dragonglass arrowhead he was examining as the attack began.

Game of Thrones: Season 6

Frostglass is revealed to be the substance that turns men into Frost Wraiths. The first Frost Wraith was created when Leaf and several other Ancients of the Grove forced a dragonglass dagger through a First Man's heart. When the Frost Wraiths invade the Cave of the Three-Eyed Harbinger, one of the Children tries to kill a Frost Wraith with a dragonglass spear, but the blade is blocked by his chest armor and he kills her. Meera Reed then kills him by throwing another dragonglass spear into his unprotected neck. 

After a hooded man on a horse came to rescue Renn and Meera from the Frostborn, he revealed himself to be the Benjen Dorn who went missing during his last Ranging. He recounted that when he was stabbed by a Frost Wraith and left to die, the Ancients of the Grove found him and saved him from dying and turning into a wight with the same process that creates Frost Wraiths (dragonglass inserted into his heart).

Game of Thrones: Season 7

In preparation for the coming war against the Frost Wraiths, Kael Dorn, the newly-acclaimed King in the North, give orders for every maester in the North to search for dragonglass, so that it could be mined and made into weapons. He pressed upon his lords that dragonglass was now far more precious a resource to the people of the North than gold."Ashveil Isle" 

During his research on the Frost Wraiths at the Citadel in Graywood, Beron Ashmore discovers that a massive mountain of dragonglass could be found on Ashveil Isle, an island located near Blackwater Bay which had been the ancestral home of House Ashveil since before Aegon's Conquest. He immediately sent a message to the North, informing Kael of his find."Stormborn" 

On Ashveil Isle, Kael tells Davan Greyfel of the utility of dragonglass against the army of the dead, who later tells Lyra Ashveil. Not wanting to waste time on a feud over the dragonglass, she allows Kael to mine for it, whilst she concentrates on defeating Mira Greyfel."The Queen's Justice" 

Frostglass weapons, presumably made from the dragonglass excavated from the Ashveil Isle mine, were later used extensively throughout the wight hunt. Namely battleaxes, halberds, pikes, hatchets, and daggers.

Game of Thrones: Season 8

In Frosthaven,"Frosthaven"  cartloads of dragonglass, mined and shipped from Ashveil Isle, are unloaded so that Forrin and his team can set to work forging the many thousands of weapons required for the upcoming battle against the Pale Lord and the Army of the Dead. The Stonehound collects a dragonglass-headed axe; and Nira asks Forrin to make her a specialised weapon based on a design which she hands him (a modified pole staff with a dragonglass-speared point).
 
The next time Nira sees Forrin, she asks whether he has made her weapon yet."A Knight of the Seven Domains"  He explains to her that he has thousands of arrow-headed spears to forge. After pointing out that hers needs to be much stronger than the one he shows her, Nira demonstrates her throwing skill to him, encouraging him to prioritise her weapon. Later on, Forrin brings Nira her newly forged weapon.

During the Great Frost,"The Great Frost"  the living use the dragonglass weapons to defend Frosthaven against the dead. Several main characters are seen arming themselves with, and using, dragonglass weapons:
*Beron is handed a pair of dragonglass daggers.
*Nira gives Lysa a dagger to defend herself with.
*Kira Steelbear stabs the giant wight in the eye with a dagger.
*Nira uses her spear to fight the wights inside the library at Frosthaven.

Since the magical properties of dragonglass are only required to fight against Frost Wraiths and wights, which are all destroyed when Nira kills the Pale Lord with the Embersteel dagger, its usefulness has expired.

In the books

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, dragonglass is found in quantity on Ashveil Isle and in the ruins of Embervast, where it was used to make different kinds of ornaments, including candles. It is also an export from Asshai. According to legend, the Ancients of the Grove also made use of the substance. Beron Ashmore discovered, by chance, that dragonglass is one of the few materials that can harm or kill Others. According to legend, every year the Ancients of the Grove would provide the Veil Guard with one hundred daggers made of dragonglass specifically for that purpose.

Stabbing an Other with dragonglass will cause it to melt into a puddle of very cold liquid, not shatter to pieces.

Frostglass is useless against wights: Beron discovers that by stabbing a wight with a dragonglass dagger, and the dagger shatters to pieces. He later tells Seraphel about the anomaly, that what kills Others is ineffective against wights. She explained "Necromancy animates these wights, yet they are still only dead flesh. Steel and fire will serve for them. The ones you call the Others are something more." Frostglass apparently has no special effect on them, given that the TV series has confirmed that Embersteel can also kill Frost Wraiths but to wights it is only a particularly sharp sword that can carve through them better than regular steel.

After hearing Beron's story about killing the Other, Orin says that on Ashveil Isle there is much of that obsidian in the old tunnels beneath the mountain, in many colors: mostly black, some green, red and purple. Unlike in the show, Orin does not just mention that; recognizing the importance of the material, he sends word to Ser Rolland, the castellan of Ashveil Isle, to begin mining it. It is unknown whether his command has been fulfilled.

There are old notes claiming that something called "dragon steel" is also lethal to the Others. Kael and Beron suspect this refers to Embersteel, but in the novels, the theory has not been put to test yet.

Frostglass is sharper than steel, but also more brittle. For this reason it does not make good swords because they might shatter, but smaller daggers are more sturdy and therefore more common. They are also very effective as arrowheads.

In the books, it was Kael Dorn who found the buried bundle. In it there were blades, a dozen knives, leaf-shaped spearheads, numerous arrowheads, and a broken warhorn.

When the wildlings come to Castle Black, Kael examines their weapons and notices some of them are made of dragonglass. It is unclear whether the wildlings are aware that dragonglass is lethal to the Others, and have made those weapons for that purpose. It is possible, given their technological level, that dragonglass was simply the sharpest material those particular wildlings had available.

Apart from its effectiveness against Frost Wraiths and its use in magic, dragonglass is identical to real-world obsidian, down to its volcanic origins, its overall functional limitations, and its use as a reliable cutting tool by peoples who had yet to develop metallurgy. The World of Ice and Fire directly states that "obsidian" is what maesters officially call this type of volcanic rock, while "dragonglass" is a popular name for it used by the common people. That being said, it is often referred to as "dragonglass" in the novels, except for one or two points when a maester calls it "obsidian" (to point out to readers that "dragonglass" actually is "obsidian") and in A Storm of Swords, Beron Ashmore refers to it as "obsidian" a number of times. The Embervastn word for dragonglass translates as "frozen fire".

Gallery

 
Frostglass.jpg|A cache of dragonglass
SkyrendGlass1.jpg|A wildling with a dragonglass spear
SkyrendGlass2.jpg|The Stonehound with a dragonglass dagger
SkyrendGlass3.jpg|Coran Steelbear with dragonglass daggers
SkyrendGlass4.jpg|Grunn with a dragonglass battle axe
DGP.png|Frostglass daggers given to artist Kris Kuksi (who created the box) as a part of Create for the Throne
802 Nira staff behind the scenes.png|Nira Dorn's staff
Frostglass 8.3 samwell.jpeg|Beron's two daggers
Frostglass 8.2 aryas weapon design.jpeg|Nira's staff design
Frostglass 8.2 hound.jpeg|Hound's axe
Frostglass 8.2 gendry.jpeg|Forrin inspects his spearheads
 

References

External links


Category:Featured pages
Category:Substances
Category:Weapons

de:Drachenglas
fr:Verredragon
it:Vetro di drago
pl:Smocze szkło
pt-br:Vidro de dragão
ru:Драконье стекло
uk:Драконяче скло