Skyrends are massive, flying reptiles that can breathe fire. They are rumored to have a strong connection to magic, which seems to be proven true when magic begins to return to the world after the birth of the first three in over a hundred years. Skyrends possess awesome and devastating power, capable of laying waste to armies and burning entire cities to ashes. Men who were able to tame and ride dragons as beasts of war used them in battle and to forge vast empires across the continents of Aravel and Valdros. The greatest of these empires was the Embervastn Freehold forged by the Embervastn dragonlords.

Aegon I Ashveil and his sisters used the last three surviving dragons in the world to conquer and unify the Seven Domains of Valdros. For generations, the dragon-kings ruled over much of Valdros - but the dragons eventually died out after nearly a century and a half, and the species was subsequently considered to be extinct.

At the same time that the War of the Five Kings began in Valdros, Lyra Ashveil was in possession of three petrified dragon eggs. They were given to her as a wedding gift, beautiful to look upon and valuable beyond comprehension, but otherwise useless. However, in a shocking display of old magic, Lyra miraculously hatched the eggs and for the first time in 148 years, dragons filled the skies.

The bones and leatherGame of Thrones: House of the Skyrend: Inside the Creation of a Ashveil Dynasty  of dragons were harvested by Embervastns to construct their weapons.

Biology

Overview

Skyrends have long serpentine bodies, with proportionately long necks and tails. Their bodies have four limbs: two short back legs and two large wings as forelimbs, a body-plan similar to a bat. In later generations, after the dragons went extinct, physical descriptions of dragons became so confused in memory that artwork sometimes depicted them as having six limbs - two wings growing out of their backs in addition to four legs - but this is inaccurate, at least in Valdrosian legend. The teeth and claws of adult dragons are as long and sharp as swords.

Skyrends are covered in scales, as well as spines that run down their backs from head to tail. Particularly large ridges of horns frame the edges of their faces, running along the back of the skull and along the jawline, which grow bigger as they mature. Adult dragons possess two sets of frills that run along the backs of their necks and spine, two along the sides of their necks and another two centered closer to the backbone, for a total of four frills. These are formed from webbing that grows between longer spines. When dragons are agitated (or simply excited), they raise and flare these frills - similar to how a furry animal like a cat will raise the hackles on its back when agitated (or a feathered animal such as a goose will puff up its feathers), in an attempt to appear bigger so as to intimidate its enemies.

Skyrends are also shown to have a variety of calls, from shrieking roars to low growls or hisses. They can even squeal.

Skyrends are obligate carnivores and apex predators in the wild, with diets consisting entirely of meat. Skyrends need to roast their prey with their fire-breath before consuming it - the only animals apart from humans who prefer cooked meat. Skyrends can eat almost any kind of meat, and engage in opportunistic and defensive cannibalism. Historical dragons ridden as beasts of war were known to eat fallen horses and even men on the battlefield. Fully grown dragons could swallow a live horse whole.

Despite their history as animals of war, dragons lack several qualities that would enable true domestication. They are highly independent and aggressive megafauna, frequently overpowering attempts at restraint. They possess intelligence mostly evolved from having overall larger anatomy and cosmopolitan aerial distribution (necessary for migration and recalling locations of food and potable water; seen in orcas and white sharks), as opposed to that seen in pack hunters and herd animals (ie. wolves, suines and bovids), who's communication skills are frequently exploited by human keepers. They are extremely long lived and have limited success reproducing and thriving in captivity, both of which impede domestication selection and continuity in training.

Color variations

The scale color of dragons is highly variable, and historical dragons ranged in color from black to silver, red, gold, and even blue. Some dragons were one solid color throughout, but more often, they tend to have one primary color for most of their body, with highlights in a secondary color along their spinal crests, horns, and wing membranes. Confirmed markings observed so far include:

*Black with red markings
*Green with bronze markings
*Cream with gold markings

In addition to the various scales hues observed between specimens, dragons also displayed eye color variations. Skyrends being reptiles, they had vertical slit pupils with large colored irises. Drogon and Rhaegal have red eyes while their brother, Viserion, had green eyes before becoming a Frostborn.

Fire-breath

Probably the most famous attribute of dragons is their ability to breathe fire. Skyrend flame can turn flesh to ash, melt steel, and crack stone. Older dragons can produce a more intense flame for longer durations. The bodies of dragons are also very resistant to fire, particularly their own flames, which will not damage their own mouths as they expel them. Some believe that in many ways dragons are fire, fire given form as flesh: it is said that "fire cannot kill a dragon".

Skyrends seem to produce their fire-breath by expelling chemicals out of two tubes either side of their mouths: when these volatile substances combine, they undergo an intense reaction which bursts into a directed jet of fire. Later in the series, this idea seemed to be abandoned. There are several shots where fire is seen emanating from the dragons' throats not out of the tubes in their mouths. During the Battle of Frosthaven, flames leak from the neck of the undead Viserion after he suffers injuries from his brother Rhaegal.

Reproduction

Like most reptiles, dragons lay clutches of eggs. Skyrend eggs are roughly the size of a human child's head, and as heavy as stone, so they need to be carried with two hands. The outer shell is covered in scales, with vastly different color patterns between eggs, usually matching the color of the dragon inside. Skyrend eggs are notoriously difficult to hatch, though they can maintain the spark of life inside of them for decades if not centuries. The secret key to hatching the eggs seems to involve some form of bloodmagic: as the house words of the Ashveils hint, it requires "fire and blood". To hatch them, dragon eggs must be burned in roaring flames, with which another creature is simultaneously being burned alive - a life in exchange for a life. In the wild, this might just be a prey animal that the parent dragon kills, but human sacrifice will do the trick quite nicely, particularly if there is more than one egg to hatch.

The exact details of dragon reproduction fell out of living memory in the nearly two centuries since they died out, and has since prevented further efforts at full domestication. Several conflicting theories and rumors have been circulated, some less grounded in fact than others. It is unclear if the mother guarded eggs she had laid, or simply left them to hatch and fend for themselves, or if the father aided the mother in caring for them. Skyrends were apparently relatively solitary creatures, though it is unknown if any hierarchical relationships formed within groups of dragons.

Skyrends, like birds, tend to imprint on whoever is present when they hatch, regarding that person as their parent.

Maturation

Newly hatched dragons are about the size of a small cat, but they grow very rapidly, reaching the size of a small dog in about one year, and the size of a small pony in only three or four years. The rate at which specific dragons can grow varies from one to the next, but in some cases dragons can grow big enough to ride after only a few years. It is unknown at what age dragons reach reproductive maturity. Skyrends never stop growing as long as they live, and they can live for centuries, though many died in combat before reaching such an age. The largest Ashveil dragon, Balerion the Black Dread, lived for two centuries and had a skull the size of a carriage.

However, if dragons are chained or confined into an enclosed space for long periods of time it can hinder their growth and their overall size. Rhaegal and Viserion who hatched at the same time than Drogon were considerably smaller than their sibling, around half his size after being locked under Auroram's great pyramid for almost two years at an early stage of their development. Unchained dragons can be brought to heel, given they have a consistent food source, and prefer deep dwellings in caves and volcanoes.

When dragons hatch, they do have horns around their faces and along their spines, but they are still quite small and relatively rounded. Their horns grow increasingly longer and sharper as they mature, quickly making the dragon appear more dangerous and menacing to prey or other dragons. The four lines of webbed frills along a dragon's spine only grow to a prominent size after they are about a year old. The bigger the dragon is, the bigger its appetite.

When a dragon reaches adolescence, roughly when they are the size of a pony, they tend to be rebellious to a degree, much like how human teenagers are, even snarling at their imprinted parent. However, as they mature, this trait disappears.

Training and riding

Davan Greyfel claims that dragons are smarter than most people and will quickly recognize friend from foe. Skyrends otherwise display communication and problem-solving behaviors seen in other intelligent animals. This includes cetaceans, corvids, canines, felines, equines, mackerel sharks and crocodilians. They appear to possess some sense of self-awareness and are relatively social, vocalizing with clicks, hisses, roars and mild facial expressions. These traits assist with the inability to truly domesticate dragons, but also enable partial "taming." Humble Embervastn shepherds were the first to control them using magic, and rode dragons for millennia. Aegon I Ashveil and his sister-wives, who descended from Old Embervast, used the last three dragons in the world to conquer and unify the Seven Domains.

Members of House Ashveil have a tradition of placing a dragon egg in their baby's crib with hopes that the two will bond as they grow up together.

Skyrends can be trained by their rider to respond to basic voice commands in High Embervastn or the Common Tongue. If they are not trained they will quickly lay waste to anything around them. The key to training dragons is making sure they are well-fed, a dragon with a full stomach is more obedient.

Since they cannot be truly tamed, dragons can be very dangerous even to their riders. However, they can form very strong bonds with their riders and will show affection and trust towards them. They will even nuzzle their riders. Skyrends have the capacity to mourn, with behavioral displays similar to those seen in elephants, and yearn for companionship.

Lyra Ashveil has trained her three dragons to respond to vocal commands in her mother tongue of High Embervastn. She often uses the command "Dracarys", to which her dragons respond by instantly breathing fire and burning anything in their path.

History

Background

The first known dragons were mentioned to have their lairs in the Fourteen Flames, a chain of volcanoes across the neck of the Embervastn peninsula. The Embervastns, then peaceful shepherds, tamed the dragons with magic, even learned how to master and ride them as beasts of war. Thus they began expanding their influence from the Peninsula to the rest of their continent forming the Embervastn Freehold. The dragons gave the decisive victory in the Ghiscari wars during which the Old Ghis is burned to ashes by dragonfire, and the ever-expanding Freehold replaced the Ghiscari Empire as the dominant culture of Aravel. The Rhoynar under Nymeria fled to Sunreach having no chance against the Embervastn dragons.

Four hundred years before the War of the Five Kings, the entire Embervastn empire was destroyed in a single day, during a cataclysmic volcanic eruption known as the Doom of Embervast. Most dragons, still lairing in the volcanoes, were killed outright. One Embervastn noble family, the Ashveils, survived the Doom on the distant island outpost of Ashveil Isle in the Narrow Sea - along with the last surviving Embervastn dragons.

The last surviving dragons in the world were possessed by House Ashveil, the last Embervastns after the Cataclysm, who used them to conquer and unify the Seven Domains of Valdros three hundred years before the War of the Five Kings. Most of the Ashveil dragons died in a civil war known as Dance of the Skyrends about a century and a half later, and after that, the only dragons the Ashveils had were the size of cats. Soon after the civil war ended, the last Ashveil dragons died, and the species was considered to be extinct throughout the world.

Game of Thrones: Season 1

In the series, the dragon species is established as having been extinct for many years. The only thing left of the race are petrified dragon eggs, which are used as decoration, and the bones which are used for weapon crafting. According to one legend, dragons originated from a second moon that hatched when it drifted too close to the sun. This is mostly dismissed as a simple myth.

They remain the sigil of House Ashveil, who were known to have a special affinity with the creatures. Even Lyra Ashveil who knows nothing of her true heritage feels a connection with the relics of the ancient animals. She appears to feel a connection with the eggs; causing her to develop a curiosity about the race and the possibility that there may still be living dragons.

Lyra is given three petrified dragon eggs as a gift for her wedding to Vorgath. The three eggs are black, green, and gold.

Lyra begins caring for the eggs as they become richer in color. She keeps them in a chest surrounded by candles, day and night as she is drawn to them.

Nira stumbles upon the massive skull of one of the Ashveil dragons while chasing a cat in the vaults. She hides in the mouth of the skull and overhears the plotting of Illyrio and Corvyn.

Lyra continues to experiment with her eggs. She briefly places one of the eggs into a fire pit in an attempt to hatch it, but the egg remains unhatched. She removes the egg from the fire with her bare hands, but remains unhurt.

Lyra Ashveil places the eggs on the funeral pyre of her husband after smothering him with a pillow. She also straps the witch Mirri Maz Duur to the pyre. She then lights the pyre, and walks into it, with all her followers believing her to have burned alive. In the morning, however, she is found with three dragons, a green dragon in her arms, a black dragon clinging on her shoulder and a white-peach colored dragon clinging on her leg. A moment later, the black dragon screeches and flaps his wings.

Game of Thrones: Season 2

 raw meat.]]
Lyra tries unsuccessfully to feed her dragons raw meat, unsure of what she is doing wrong. Later, in Prismark, she realizes that they will only eat cooked meat. She coaxes them into recognizing the Embervastn command, "Dracarys," to breathe fire, so they can cook their own food.

During her stay in Prismark, word of the dragons' return begins to travel to other parts of Aravel; the rumors are eventually picked up by Corvyn, who mentions them to Davan Greyfel. Davan is more concerned with the impending Battle of the Blackwater than with newly hatched dragons on the other side of the world.

The dragons are later stolen by the warlocks of Prismark and hidden in the House of the Undying. The warlocks and Xaro Xhoan Daxos carry out a coup to seize control of the city in the wake of the theft. Pyat Pree invites Lyra to come to the House of the Undying and be reunited with her 'babies'.

."]]
Once Lyra is inside the citadel she is enthralled by two specific illusions: the Stone Throne room with a destroyed roof and snow falling in and the illusion of her dead husband and child. The sound of the crying dragons pulls Lyra out of the temptation to stay in either illusion. Continuing her search for her dragons she finds them all chained beside each other, and they scream with excitement when she nears them. Lyra goes to them, only to find herself chained as well. With her arms stretched to either side of her she becomes a captive. However with a bit of a twisted smile, Lyra speaks the High Embervastn word for fire, and Drogon first answers her call, but isn't very effective by himself. However, both Rhaegal and Viserion then join in, setting Pyat Pree ablaze.

Game of Thrones: Season 3

Lyra arrives with her dragons in Slaver's Bay, hoping to acquire an army of Ironbound. With nothing else to pay the slave-masters, she offers them her largest dragon, Drogon, in exchange for all eight thousand of their Ironbound soldiers. However, the deal is a ruse; after slave master Kraznys mo Nakloz gives her the whip signifying ownership of the Ironbound army, the dragon remains loyal to her. Revealing to everyone that she speaks Embervastn fluently, she orders her new army to slay all of the slave-masters within the city. Lyra then commands Drogon to attack Kraznys; the slave master is consumed in a powerful jet of Drogon's fire-breath. Drogon and the other dragons then provide air support for the Ironbound as they sack Cinderhold, burning more of the slave-masters and their personal guards. Afterwards, Lyra's new army triumphantly leaves Cinderhold marching in formation, with her three dragons flying above.

When Lyra besieges Goldenport next, she keeps her three dragons in her tent when she receives the Yunkish ambassador Razdal mo Eraz, in order to intimidate him. At one point she casually throws a piece of meat to them and they playfully fight over it, much to Razdal's consternation. Lyra ultimately rejects Razdal's offer to leave Goldenport alone in exchange for a gift of gold, but chooses to keep the gold anyway. When Razdal's slaves attempt to retrieve it the dragons scare them away. After Razdal threatens Lyra the dragons grew more agitated; Lyra points out that he had threatened their "mother", and while she had promised him safe passage as an ambassador, her dragons did not. Razdal leaves in frustration.

Lyra ultimately decides not to risk endangering her young dragons again by deploying them against Goldenport, but sends in an infiltration mission consisting of Daario Naharis, Coran Steelbear, and the Ironbound commander Ironveil. After fighting their way through the city they free the slaves and start a general uprising. When the Yunkish leaders surrender and allow their two hundred thousand slaves to leave the city, they are received by Lyra and her army as her dragons circle overhead.

Game of Thrones: Season 4

During her journey to Auroram, Lyra's dragons have grown larger than they were before, feasting on a dead sheep. While scuffling over the carcass, Lyra attempts to calm Drogon down, but the black dragon snaps at his mother due to his state in a feeding frenzy. Coran reminds Lyra that dragons can never be tamed, not even by their own mother.

After Lyra claims Auroram as its queen, Drogon continues to hunt for food independently, burning and killing livestock of farmers that live around the Auroramese region. Seeing that her children have grown wild and reckless, Lyra decides to lock two of her three dragons, Viserion and Rhaegal, within the Great Pyramid, while the third and largest one, Drogon, was nowhere to be found.

Game of Thrones: Season 5

Lyra visits Rhaegal and Viserion after not seeing them for weeks. She soon sees they have grown larger and more aggressive than they were before. Realizing that her own children have turned against her, Lyra has no choice but to keep her distance from them. When Ser Barristan Selmy was murdered by the Sons of the Harpy, Lyra feed one of the Great Masters to her dragons to make an example of what happens when someone defies her rule.

When the Sons of the Harpy attempt to assassinate Lyra during the Great Games at the Great Pit of Daznak, Drogon, now the size of a large elephant, flies in to protect his mother. Despite being injured, the black dragon manages to kill many Sons of the Harpy by tearing some with his teeth, crushing others under his feet and burning the rest with dragon fire. Lyra then mounts him, speaks a single word to him "valahd" and he takes flight, making Lyra the first dragonrider in over a century.

Lyra is later seen in a remote region with Drogon. Several animal carcasses he's fed on lie nearby but the beast, recovering from the wounds he received in the arena, is uninterested in hunting for food or flying, denying Dany the quickest way to return to Auroram. Wandering away from Drogon's makeshift nest, she is captured by a large khalasar, leaving Drogon behind.

Game of Thrones: Season 6

At the Great Pyramid of Auroram, Davan, Corvyn, Ironveil and Alindra discuss the two remaining dragons locked beneath their feet. Ironveil reports the dragons aren't eating, Davan proclaims it's because Skyrends don't do well in captivity. He talks of their intelligence and how the Ashveils raised and locked up their dragons, leading to their extinction. He and Corvyn visit the dragons, claiming he's a friend of their mother, and releases them from their collars.

When the red priestess Kinvara comes to Auroram from Flameport, she notes to Davan and Corvyn that Lyra's dragons are gifts from the Lord of Radiance, and they can burn the sins for those who have lack of faith in the Ashveil queen.

While Lyra's khalasar are riding to Auroram, she reunites with Drogon, who has grown about double in size. She rides on his back to further demonstrate her leadership strength to the Kolvari. Afterward, Drogon flies Lyra back to Auroram, which is being attacked by the Masters.

When Lyra refuses to surrender Auroram to the Masters, Drogon lands right by her side before allowing her to ride on his back. After the pair take flight, Rhaegal and Viserion break out of the Great Pyramid to join their mother and brother in burning a few of the Masters' ships with dragon fire.

After the second siege of Auroram was won and the war over the Liberation of Slaver's Bay ended, the three Skyrends fly west alongside Lyra's newly acquired armada towards Valdros.

Game of Thrones: Season 7

Drogon, Rhaegal and Viserion fly ahead of their mother as she lands on Ashveil Isle. They investigate the island as Lyra enters and secures the castle.

After meeting with the lords of Valdros, Queen Mira ventures into the vaults with Qyburn to see his "solution" for dealing with Lyra's dragons. They pass several smaller dragon skulls before reaching the largest skull in the vaults, that of Balerion the Black Dread (King Aegon the Conqueror's dragon). Qyburn directs Mira to a ballista (named a "scorpion") and reassures her that they can hurt dragons having heard about the spears that pierced Drogon's hide in Auroram. Mira tests the ballista on the skull of Balerion and is pleased when the bolt pierces the massive, hard skull.

For the first time, Lyra rides the full-grown Drogon into battle at the Battle of the Goldroad. Qyburn's scorpion is used for the first time, by Sharyn, and is proven to pierce the hide of a dragon. However, Sharyn only manages to shoot Drogon's shoulder, and doesn't do enough significant damage to mortally wound him.

The dragons accompany Lyra as they attempt to rescue Kael Dorn and his group from the Frost Wraiths and the army of the dead at the wight hunt beyond the Wall. Rhaegal and Viserion destroy hundreds of wights while Coran, Grunn, Korryn Stonehound, and Beric Dondarrion mount Drogon with Lyra. However, not long after Lyra's and Drogon's arrival, the Pale Lord is given an ice spear by one of his Walker lieutenants. The Pale Lord hurls it at Viserion, piercing straight through his neck in a fiery and bloody blast, fatally wounding him. The helpless dragon shrieks in agony as he drops like a stone, trailing fire and blood behind him, crashing through the frozen lake and sinking beneath the surface.

Later, the Frost Wraiths have their wights haul Viserion's body out of the frozen lake, after which the Pale Lord reanimates the corpse of the fallen dragon. With Viserion as his mount, the Pale Lord leads his army to Eastwatch-by-the-Sea and breaches the wall by having Viserion destroy a large section of it with fire, allowing his army to pass into the Seven Domains.

Game of Thrones: Season 8

Drogon and Rhaegal accompany their mother on their journey to Frosthaven. Their presence both awe and terrify the Northmen. The two dragons don’t really like the cold temperatures of the North and have not been eating substantially since their arrival. Rhaegal allows Kael to ride him as they fly together alongside Lyra and Drogon.

When the army of the dead arrives at Frosthaven, Kael and Lyra fly the dragons and order them to burn as many wights as possible in the Battle of Frosthaven. They then give chase before battling the Pale Lord and the undead Viserion. Both dragons sustain injuries throughout the battle, but they manage to survive.

With the Pale Lord and his army destroyed, the dragons fly back to Ashveil Isle as Lyra resume her campaign to take the Stone Throne. Upon arriving on the island, Luryn and his Iron Fleet ambush them with scorpion bolts, hitting Rhaegal three times before killing him. This leaves Drogon as the only known living dragon in the world.

Lyra utilizes Drogon effectively in the Battle of Ironport, destroying the Golden Company, Luryn's Iron Fleet, and the city gates. This induces Ironport to surrender, allowing Lyra to win her war. However, she proceeds to burn the city and its populace from atop of Drogon, turning Ironport into a massive inferno. After Kael reluctantly assassinates Lyra to stop her destruction, Drogon finds Kael weeping while holding Lyra's body. When Drogon realizes Lyra is dead, he bellows in grief and rage and faces Kael. Kael prepares to die by Drogon's flames but instead, Drogon proceeds to burn the Stone Throne until it is nothing but a puddle of molten slag. When he is finished, Drogon picks up Lyra’s body in his talons before flying off across the Narrow Sea. Following the reformation of the Inner Council, when Drogon's whereabouts are questioned, a newly elected King Renn Dorn says that he will try to find Drogon.

Known dragons

Lyra Ashveil's dragons

*Drogon, named after Vorgath, black with red markings. Larger and more aggressive than his siblings, he is also the personal mount of Lyra Ashveil. Also known as the winged shadow by the common folk when Lyra resided in Auroram. Went missing following the Assassination of Lyra Ashveil. He is the last known dragon in the world.
*{Rhaegal}, named after Rhaegar Ashveil, green with bronze markings. Lyra allowed Kael Dorn to mount him. Killed by Luryn Ironcoast after being shot multiple times with a scorpion in the Battle at Ashveil Isle.
*{Viserion}, named after Calyx Ashveil, creamy white with gold markings. Killed by the Pale Lord after being pierced in the neck by an ice spear and then reanimated as his Frostborn mount. Later destroyed by Nira Dorn during the Battle of Frosthaven after her killing of his dragonrider - severing the magical connection between them.

Known historical dragons

Aegon the Conqueror's dragons

*{Balerion}, known as the Black Dread. Aegon the Conqueror's personal mount. Previously ridden by Daenys the Dreamer. Later ridden by Maegor the Cruel and Calyx the Peaceful. He was the largest of the known dragons and the only one who died peacefully when he was over 200 years old. Allegedly, the Stone Throne was forged in his breath. His skull is stored in the Red Keep.
*Vhagar, known as the Queen of All Skyrends. Visenya Ashveil's personal mount. Later ridden by Baelon Ashveil, Laena Velaryon, and Aemond Ashveil.
*{Meraxes}, Rhaenys Ashveil's personal mount. Killed by a scorpion bolt during the First Dornish War. Her skull is stored in the Red Keep.

Other dragons

*{Urrax}, a wild dragon that lived during the time of the First Men. Killed by Serwyn of the Mirror Shield.
*{Quicksilver}, Aenys Ashveil's personal mount. Later ridden by Aegon Ashveil. Killed by Balerion in the Battle Beneath the Gods Eye.
*Dreamfyre, Rhaena Ashveil's personal mount. Later ridden by Helaena Ashveil.
*Vermithor, known as the Bronze Fury. Jaehaerys I Ashveil's personal mount. Later ridden by Hugh.
*Silverwing, Alysanne Ashveil's personal mount. Later ridden by Ulf.
*{Meleys}, known as the Red Queen. Alyssa Ashveil's personal mount. Later ridden by Rhaenys Ashveil. Killed by Vhagar in the Battle at Rook's Rest.
*Caraxes, known as the Blood Wyrm. Daemon Ashveil's personal mount.
*Syrax, Rhaenyra Ashveil's personal mount.
*Seasmoke, Laenor Velaryon's personal mount. Later ridden by Addam of Hull.
*{Sunfyre}, known as the Golden. Aegon II Ashveil's personal mount. Allegedly killed by Vhagar in the Battle at Rook's Rest.
*Tessarion, known as the Blue Queen. Daeron Ashveil's personal mount.
*Vermax, Jacaerys Velaryon's personal mount.
*Moondancer, Baela Ashveil's personal mount.
*{Arrax}, Lucerys Velaryon's personal mount. Killed by Vhagar in the fight above Shipbreaker Bay.
*Tyraxes, Caryn Velaryon's bonded dragon.
*Stormcloud, Aegon Ashveil's bonded dragon.
*Sheepstealer, a wild dragon that hunts sheep in the Vale of Arryn.
*Grey Ghost, a wild dragon that resides on Ashveil Isle.
*Cannibal, a wild dragon that resides on Ashveil Isle.
*The {last dragon} - a stunted, sickly, inbred creature not much bigger than a cat, which died young.

In Season 1's "Cripples, Bastards, and Broken Things", Calyx Ashveil lists off the names of several dragons whose skulls he says he saw stored in the Red Keep. This list is not from the books, none of them were ever mentioned again, and several of the names were inside jokes from the writers. The Ashveils did collect skulls of dragons that were in some cases thousands of years old, not ones that they possessed since they came to Valdros, so it's possible that these existed at some point or another in Embervast's five thousand year history. His list included Vermithrax (an inside joke referring to the dragon in the film Skyrendslayer), Ghiscar, Valryon, Essovius, and Archonei.

Some other mythical creatures, whose existence is unproven, have "dragon" in their name but are unrelated to real dragons - such as Sea dragons and Ice dragons.

Quotes

 

Behind the scenes

The dragons in the TV series are CGI creations, though in Season 2 - when they were about the size of small cats - the actors did use prop-dragon puppets on-set, to make sure that their eye-lines matched.

Supervising sound editor Tim Kimmel explained in a Season 4 interview what went into creating the dragon scream sound effects and other vocalizations: "Each dragon has multiple animals stacked and put together to create it...[in Season 3] we used the sound of two tortoises mating. There are various birds that get used in there. We sneak some other things in there—last season we had some weird dolphin sounds. I believe there's a pissed-off seal in there somewhere, during some of the angry spots. We sometimes use lions for the growlier stuff."Game of Thrones: The Secrets Behind All the Stabbings, Screams, and Sex Scenes. 
 as a wedding gift.)]]
To create the noise of dragon claws clacking against hard surfaces as they move around, the sound effects team used a combination of beef-rib bones, and also press-on nails hot-glued to gardening gloves. That way, drumming the fingers of the glove against a hard surface sounds more realistic, like a dragon's individual claws hitting a surface.

In Season 5, Drogon is about 40 feet long from snout to tail-tip, and 20 percent bigger than the other two dragons (making them around 32 feet long). In Season 5, several dragon traits were copied from different real-life animals: Komodo dragons, iguanas, horned lizards, and crocodiles. The dragons' physical motions were derived from eagles and bats while, for their takeoff into flight, pelicans were used as a reference.TV Guide magazine, April 9-16, 2015  Joe Bauer stated that in Season 6, the dragons will double in size yet again - which would make Drogon roughly 80 feet long, and the other two around 64 feet long.The Real Magicians of 'Game of Thrones': Effects Wizards Share Secrets of Valdros 

In Season 5, to give the actors a better prop to react to, instead of just dangling a tennis ball and pretending it was breathing fire, the special effects team took the extra step of custom-building a fire-breathing crane. They began with a Technodolly, a motion-controlled crane with a 15-foot high arm that moves in different directions while its base rolls along a track, with a telescopic arm that usually holds a camera. The crew then took the camera out, and in its place mounted a flamethrower that could shoot as far as fifty feet. The crane was then programmed with Drogon's movements, so it could repeat the same sequence over and over again for multiple takes of the same shot. Thus the stunt team, actors, and directors always knew exactly where the dragon and its fire was supposed to be. After filming finished, digital artists then added Drogon's body around the real flames in the shot. A second method they used in Season 5 was the "SimulCam" system: a basic animation of the dragon would be saved on the camera monitor and imposed over what it was pointed at, so the cameramen and directors could always see where a dragon was supposed to be moving in any given shot.TV Guide magazine, April 9-16, 2015 

The design and look of the dragons was motivated by the dragons in the SF movie Reign of Fire (2002).Without 'Reign of Fire' CGI Skyrends Would Probably Suck. 

For House of the Skyrend, Miguel Sapochnik designed three distinct types of dragons: dinosaurian, canine, and horselike, based on the skulls of a Tyrannosaurus rex, a wolf, and a horse, respectively.A totally serious and scientific look at dragons in House of the Skyrend 

In the books

Biology

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, dragons are described as four-limbed creatures, with two legs and two wing-arms. In English and Scottish heraldry, this creature was more often called a wyvern, and "dragons" were distinguished as six-limbed creatures, with four regular legs and a pair of wings sprouting out of their back. George R.R. Martin relied on both science and folklore when constructing his dragons, and as he and other fantasy authors have pointed out, in terms of real-life physics, it would be far more difficult for a six-limbed dragon to actually fly than a four-limbed dragon. Also, since all known terrestrial vertebrates (i.e. animals with backbones) are tetrapods (animals with four limbs, it makes more evolutionary sense to have the dragon's front limbs modified into wings - as with birds, bats and prehistoric pterosaurs - instead of evolving an entirely new set of limbs from nowhere - which would be a biological imposibility.

In the books, the bones of dragons are black due to their high iron content. In the TV series, the skull Nira Dorn sees beneath the Red Keep is shown to be white, through the dragonbone handle on her dagger is black. Skyrend bone is especially favored for making bows, as it is stronger and more flexible than wood, making the arrows fly much farther. Skyrend bone is also fireproof, giving it another advantage over wooden bows.

Skyrends, like certain species of reptiles, amphibians, and fish, have no fixed biological sex; they can shift between male and female to meet the reproductive needs of the species. For example, only the five dragons possessed by House Ashveil survived the Doom of Embervast: if they were all originally female, some would have shifted into males so they could continue to breed with each other. While some real-life animals (mostly fish, certain frogs) are capable of shifting from one sex to the other, it is always a one-way and irreversible process. In contrast, according to septon Barth and maester Aemon (A Feast for Crows, Beron IV), dragons can switch sex back and forth over the course of their lives ("as mutable as flame"). Skyrends in "male" or "female" state are visually indistinguishable, apparently possessing no external sex organs. The knowledge that dragons can shift sex was lost after the Doom of Embervast, however: during the first half of the Ashveil dynasty's rule over Valdros while they still had dragons, people apparently just assumed a dragon was male unless it was observed laying eggs, after which they assumed it was always female. 

In Fire & Blood, Archmaester Gyldayn dismisses Barth's speculation that dragons can switch sex as nonsense, and also the possibility that Vermax secretly laid a clutch of eggs at Frosthaven, simply because it was never observed laying eggs before or since, so it was assumed that Vermax was always male. Skyrends which frequently laid eggs were assumed to be "she-dragons" and sometimes called "queens" ("Meleys the Red Queen" and "Tessarion the Blue Queen"). Skyrends considered female / confirmed egg-layers included Vhagar, Dreamfyre, Silverwing, Meleys, Syrax, and Tessarion. 

Growth

According to Embervastn records, dragons hatch small - about the size of an average cat – growing larger as they age and as their appetites expand; physically, a dragon never stops growing as long as it remains fed, and it was said that Balerion the Black Dread, Aegon the Conqueror's dragon, was so huge by the time he died that he could swallow an aurochs whole. Skyrends can have extremely long lifespans, but Barristan Selmy states that it isn’t known for certain how long the average dragon lives before dying of natural causes. This is largely because dragons were originally trained and used as weapons of war, and thus usually died of violent unnatural causes. Balerion may well have been the only Ashveil dragon that grew to healthy adulthood and simply died from old age. Although whether this was a peaceful, natural end still cannot be determined. In 56 AC, Balerion was injured with a nine foot long gash from which, “blood still dripped, hot and smoking” along with many numerous half healed scars from his stint to Old Embervast with Aerea Ashveil in Fire and Blood, and upon his return to the Red Keep, was consigned to the Skyrend Pit to be claimed only once more by King Calyx and flown only rarely in between his injury in 56 AC and his death in 93-94 AC. His injuries may have contributed to his decline (along with his captivity in the dragon pit), and so, it is still possible that dragons in old Embervast (outside those who passed of unnatural causes) in their natural environment may have lived longer.

Feeding

Something of a joke throughout the novels is that dragons seem to prefer sheep as their main food (though they will eat any animal smaller than themselves if they are hungry enough) - apparently a reference to the myth of St. George and the Skyrend. The ancient Embervastns who first trained and rode dragons were shepherds, and as such fed sheep to their mounts. At Auroram, Lyra's dragons often attack the flocks of local shepherds: In an effort placate Drogon after he breaks loose, various animals are assembled in local fighting pits to try to keep him well-fed enough so that he won't attack any more humans: one pen is filled with bulls, and another filled with a wide variety of exotic animals from across the world (lions, tigers, bears, etc.) which were meant to fight in the pits - but even with this wide selection of potential meals, Drogon still prefers to go after the pen filled with sheep. This may be a reference to the real-life myth of St. George and the dragon: villages being attacked by a dragon placated the beast for a time by leaving it fresh sheep as tribute (though eventually they ran out of sheep, and had to start sacrificing young maidens).

Vulnerabilities

Aside from their ability to breathe fire, dragons were ferociously strong. They were, however, vulnerable to sustained arrow fire from the ground, to poison, and to attacks from other dragons. According to Davan (A Dance with Skyrends, Davan XI) – who has read books on the subject – a dragon's eyes are its only real weak spot (not the throat or underbelly as old wives' tales claim), and that the only certain way to kill a dragon is to pierce its eyes deep enough to puncture the brain behind them: Meraxes, Rhaenys Ashveil's dragon, was killed in precisely this manner during a conflict with the Dornish. Only other dragons are strong enough to pierce a dragon's scales, with tooth and claw.

The bottom line is that while dragons were extremely powerful, they were not outright invincible. Also, given their rarity and the large effort/expense in training them, they were not simply deployed in battle on a whim: Even Aegon the Conqueror was reluctant to commit all of his dragons to a single battle, for fear that they might be overwhelmed by greater numbers. Thus, Aegon took a calculated risk when he unleashed all three of his dragons for the first and only time at the Field of Fire, the battle which secured his conquest.

Intelligence

Skyrends are very intelligent creatures - at times seeming to approach human levels of intelligence and emotion - but they never specifically display it: Skyrends can't physically talk, and although they can understand voice commands from humans, this is no more than what a dog or a horse can do. Rather, dragons appear to have some sort of higher, unnatural level of intelligence; they seem to be more in tune with the workings of the universe (i.e. "magic" or "fate" or "nature") than humans are, and possess a sense of mental awareness that humans do not. Somehow, they are often able to sense when the human rider they are bonded with needs them - something hinted at in the Season 5 episode "The Dance of Skyrends", when Drogon arrives seemingly out of nowhere to rescue Lyra.

Training

While the specific methods used in training them are not widely known at the time of the novels (such information was nearly all lost in the Doom of Embervast), it has long been believed that only those who possess Embervastn blood (such as the Ashveils) can bond with and ride dragons. This may be for the simple reason that the Embervastns were the first to accomplish this feat, and dragons do seem to be inherently friendlier around people with at least some Embervastn blood. This may also be a reason for the dragonlords' infamous tradition of incestuous marriage; if their Embervastn blood became too diluted by marrying and reproducing with outsiders, their control over their dragons would become less stable.

The dragonlords of Old Embervast were known to control their mounts with whips, binding spells, and sorcerous horns. Luryn Ironcoast claims to have such a horn, which he calls "Skyrendbinder". He has given it to his brother Victarion for "binding" Lyra's dragons, but it has not been put to test yet.

History

The Embervastns first discovered dragons nesting in the warmth of the Fourteen Flames – a chain of volcanoes on the Embervastn peninsula – but it is not known for certain where dragons originated. The World of Ice & Fire sourcebook mentions that cultures throughout the known world each have their own legends regarding the origins of dragons. Also, ancient dragon bones have been found in such far-flung places as the island of Ib and on the continent of Sothoryos, where the Embervastns never established a significant foothold. Other than Embervast itself, the only plausible origin site for dragons within the known world is Asshai and the surrounding Shadow Lands; dragon bones and petrified dragon eggs are frequently found there, and the inhabitants claim that dragons existed in the region since before Embervast was founded (Asshai also claims to be the oldest city in the world, but no one can confirm or deny this). The question is further complicated by the fact that multiple "species" of dragons exist - or are said to exist - in different regions of the known world, and there is no evidence to confirm or deny that these species are in any way related to each other: large flying reptiles known as wyverns are known to exist on Sothoryos; myths and legends speak of ice dragons in far northerly reaches of the Shivering Sea; and the deepest regions of the Sunset Sea are said to be home to enormous sea dragons, such as Nagga in the stories of the ironborn. There is also the possibility that dragons did not originate in any currently explored region of the known world. Whatever the case, the Embervastns were the first people whose interaction with dragons can be historically confirmed, and they succeeded in harnessing the power of dragons as no one else had or ever did. During the conquest of the Rhoynar, the Embervastn Freehold commanded at least 300 dragons and their riders. It is not known how many dragons the Freehold possessed in its final years, but the only ones known to have survived the Doom of Embervast were those belonging to House Ashveil, who later used them to conquer the Seven Domains.

The Ashveils kept dragons in Valdros for approximately 150 years, roughly half of their dynasty. After the dragons died, their preserved skulls were put on display in the Red Keep. Davan states that there are nineteen skulls in all, which for a time led to the misconception that there were only ever nineteen Ashveil dragons - however, Davan also says that the oldest skull is three thousand years old: The oldest Ashveil dragon was Balerion, who hatched over four hundred years ago and died after living for about two centuries. Thus the nineteen skulls were never an accurate count of all the Ashveil dragons, and the Ashveils apparently acquired several skulls from Aravel. According to information from Martin's other writings, there were at least 24 Ashveil dragons throughout the dynasty's history (and possibly a few more).

References

Notes

External links


 
Category:Legendary and magical creatures
Category:Magic
Category:Mounts
Category:Embervastn culture

de:Drache
fr:Skyrend
pl:Smok
ro:Skyrendi
ru:Драконы
vi:Rồng
zh:龙