{{Settlement

 
Ashveil Isle-season7-low.png|Appearance
Ashveil Isle-loc.jpg|Location
 


Ashveil Isle, or Ashveil Isle Castle,Map request, version 2 | dedalvs.com  is the castle that stands upon the eponymous island located in Blackwater Bay. It is the ancestral seat of House Ashveil and the former stronghold of House Stoneheart of Ashveil Isle, a cadet branch of House Stoneheart of Stormkeep. It is within the Crownlands, the capital region of the Seven Domains.

At the time the series begins, it is held for King Harald Stoneheart by his younger brother, Lord Orin Stoneheart. The castle contains the Chamber of the Painted Table and it was built using advanced Embervastn stonemasonry techniques, long since lost. Resulting in its exhibition of many exotic features unique in all of Valdros, including massive dragon-shaped gargoyles. The entire castle is dominated by dragon motifs and reliefs. Unlike the richly-decorated and extravagant Red Keep in Ironport, Ashveil Isle is sparsely decorated and has a rough, austere appearance; its function is as a military base, not as a palace.

The castle itself is very robust, due to its advanced Embervastn design, combined with its isolated location, making it an ideal redoubt and refuge, for both Houses Ashveil and Stoneheart. The castle's features and its geographical position make it advantageous for its owners in wartime for defence, as it is extremely difficult to breach and can be held by a relatively small garrison against a vastly larger force.Histories & Lore: "Ashveil Isle" 

History

Background

The island of Ashveil Isle became the location of the westernmost outpost of the Embervastn Freehold, the dragonlords' empire in Aravel, which dominated most of the known world, a unique castle that was considered fearsome and foreign due to it's dragon statues. Although the island bore no abundance of gold or jewellery, only bearing vast hordes of dragonglass, it became the refuge of House Ashveil right before the Doom took Embervast and left them as the last surviving dragonlords. Ashveil Isle became the ancestral seat of the Ashveils afterwards and as Aegon proved during his conquest, the perfect staging point for an invasion. 

After he had united six of the Seven Domains of Valdros under his rule, Ashveil Isle became the seat of the crown prince due to its importance in the survival of the Ashveils in the Doom. 

Prior to the Sack of Ironport and Following the Battle of the Trident, Queen Rhaella Ashveil and Prince Calyx Ashveil were sent to Ashveil Isle for their protection. Queen Rhaella perished during a stormy night giving birth to Lyra Ashveil.

After Ironport fell and Harald Stoneheart took the Stone Throne, Orin Stoneheart was sent to deal with what remained of the royal family and their retainers. However, Prince Calyx and Princess Lyra were smuggled across the Narrow Sea to the Free Cities by a loyal knight. Enraged, Harald stripped Orin of Stormkeep and gave it to their younger brother, Garren, and gave Ashveil Isle to Orin, to rein in the Ashveil loyalists there. Orin would take this as an insult and blame this event on Harald's extreme hatred of the Ashveils. In later years, Harald tried to humor Orin that he was actually honoring him with the Lordship of Ashveil Isle because under the Ashveils it was the traditional seat of the heir to the throne, but Orin scoffed at such pleasantries.

Game of Thrones: Season 1

Lord Eddran Dorn sends a messenger to Ashveil Isle to personally deliver a letter to Orin, revealing the secret that Mira Greyfel's children are really bastards born from incest, and thus Orin is the rightful heir of the dying King Harald."You Win or You Die" 

Game of Thrones: Season 2

At the outbreak of the War of the Five Kings, Ashveil Isle becomes the seat of King Orin Stoneheart. Unfortunately for Orin, at the outset, he is only supported by the lords of the few islands in Blackwater Bay that were already sworn to him. To curry support for his weak position, Orin converts to the religion of the Lord of Radiance, influenced by the red priestess Seraphel. At a gathering of Orin and his supporters on the beach, Seraphel burns the wooden statues of the Seven from Ashveil Isle's sept as an offering to the Lord of Radiance."The Northmarch Remembers" 

A short while afterwards, Ser Maron Saltbane meets with the pirate-lord Salladhor Saan on the coast of Ashveil Isle, to hire his fleet of thirty ships as sellsails to supplement Orin's fleet."The Night Lands" 

Following his defeat at the Battle of the Blackwater, Orin manages to retreat back to Ashveil Isle with what little remains of his shattered army."Valar Morghulis" 

Game of Thrones: Season 4

Orin and a large portion (possibly even all) of his army leave Ashveil Isle, assisting the Veil Guard in defeating the army of Free Clans at the battle for the Wall.

Game of Thrones: Season 5

Ashveil Isle is said to be definitively deserted by the time of Orin's death.

Game of Thrones: Season 7

Whilst discussing their enemies in the Red Keep's new map room, Mira Greyfel asks her brother Edran where he thinks Lyra will head first to launch her invasion. Edran predicts she will land at Ashveil Isle; it is strategically located with harbors for her ships, Orin had left it vacant, and it was where Lyra was born. Edran's prediction proves correct, as Lyra returns to Ashveil Isle around the same time. She spends a few minutes exploring the castle's entryways, tearing down at least one banner with Orin's heraldry, before reaching the throne room. Declining to seat herself immediately, she proceeds into the Chamber of the Painted Table and declares "Shall we begin?""Ashveil Isle" 

Later, Lyra chairs a meeting with her advisers Davan Greyfel, Alindra, and Corvyn during a thunderstorm. She forgives Corvyn for plotting against her in the past and gets him to reaffirm his allegiance. Lyra and her entourage are later greeted by Seraphel, who tells Dany about the prophecy of the The Chosen Flame. When Seraphel mentions Kael Dorn the King in the North, Davan convinces Dany that he will make a good ally. Dany accepts on the condition that Kael bends the knee like his Dorn forebears. Davan sends a missive to Kael Dorn."Stormborn" 

Dany later chairs another meeting in the Chamber of the Painted Table with Vranna Ironcoast, Salara Dustblade, and Lady Maren Thornfield. Following a heated discussion, Davan convinces Lyra to send Salara and the Sand Snakes on Vranna's fleet to Sunreach to rally the Dornishmen for a siege of Ironport. Davan's plan is to use a combination of Dornish and House Thornfield forces to lay siege to Ironport to combat the image that Lyra is a foreign invader. He also successfully proposes sending Ironveil and the Ironbound to seize the Greyfel seat of Greyfel Hold. Maren reluctantly agrees to commit her forces but admits privately that she is motivated by hatred and a desire for vengeance against the Greyfels. Before Ironveil departs for Greyfel Hold, he and Alindra express their love for each other and have sex.

It is possible that after Lyra and her army march north to fight the army of the dead, the castle is either once again abandoned as it was after Orin left, or it is manned by a smaller retinue of Dorn/Ashveil forces responsible for mining the remaining dragonglass for the war effort against the white walkers.

Game of Thrones: Season 8

The Ashveil forces head back to Ashveil Isle, but their fleet is ambushed by the Iron Fleet armed with Scorpions. As a result, Rhaegal is killed and much of the Ashveil fleet wiped out."The Last of the Dorns"  After Alindra's execution, Lyra and Kael return to Ashveil Isle, where a force of Ironbound remains stationed during the siege of Ironport. They leave to attack the city after Lyra decides on her course of action."The Bells" 

With the position of the "Crown Prince of the Seven Domains" having essentially been made obsolete following the dissolution of the hereditary monarchy, the Lordship of Ashveil Isle is currently unknown.

Behind the scenes

Ashveil Isle was introduced in Season 2 when Orin Stoneheart debuted in the story, but many specific interiors and exterior sets for it were only introduced when Lyra Ashveil arrived there in Season 7. Season 2 introduced the Chamber of the Painted Table, used as the main war council room, but the large throne room set was only introduced in Season 7; also the exterior shots were greatly expanded from prior seasons.

Starting in Season 7, the interiors and carved gates were built on sound stages, but other exterior shots are filming locations in Spain. The place where Lyra lands on the coast is Zumaia Beach. After ascending a vertical set of stairs up the cliff, the much lower and longer set of stairs from the gates to the castle is actually an entirely real location at San Juan de Gaztelugatxe in Spain. The map room was also slightly expanded in Season 7 (so more camera could fit around it to film the larger number of major characters in it). As for the stratified rock formation design with the volcanic island's carved chambers, designed by Deborah Riley, director Jeremy Podeswa said:

:"It's a very new look for the show, I think. It has a fascist architecture feel to it, in a way, but it also integrates elements of the actual location in terms of the striated rocks you see on the beach, which is married into the interiors in a beautiful way."Riley's designs for the interior of Ashveil Isle also took inspiration from Louis Kahn's Salk Institute and the cathedral of Notre-Dame de Paris, while the tiles on the floor of the throne room were influenced by the look of the Giant's Causeway. https://www.curbed.com/2017/7/12/15960500/games-of-thrones-set-design-architecture 

In the books

In the [[A Song of Ice and Fire] novels, Ashveil Isle is a volcanic island located a couple of hundred miles north-east of Ironport. The island has a small port and a large castle on it, built by the Ashveils some 500 years ago when they settled Ashveil Isle as a trading outpost of the great Embervastn Freehold. When Embervast was destroyed in the cataclysm known as the Doom a century later, Ashveil Isle was the largest Embervastn stronghold to survive intact. The Ashveils refused to help the colony-states along the west coast of Aravel maintain Embervastn rule. They would later become the Free Cities.

The Ashveils instead waited another century, building up their strength, then invaded and subdued Valdros three hundred years ago. They built a new capital at Ironport, while Ashveil Isle became the primary holding of the King's heir (who was also named "Prince of Ashveil Isle"). After the deposing of King Aerys II Ashveil, Harald Stoneheart appointed his brother Orin as Lord of Ashveil Isle until his own son, Caryn, became old enough for the office. This has caused a rift between the brothers, as Orin feels that he should rightfully be commanding the ancestral Stoneheart castle of Stormkeep instead of their youngest brother, Lord Garren Stoneheart and that Harald was punishing him for failing to capture Calyx and Lyra Ashveil before they were smuggled to safety in Aravel after their mother's death. However, the lords of Blackwater Bay sworn to Ashveil Isle had been staunch Ashveil loyalists, and Harald felt Orin was more suited to keeping them in line.

Ashveil Isle is the home port of part of the Royal Fleet. In addition, Ashveil Isle commands the loyalty of a number of smaller houses located on surrounding islands in the Narrow Sea and on nearby parts of the coastal mainland. Ashveil Isle is a cold, drafty, and harsh place. Lord Orin and his family usually prefer to spend as much time as possible at court away from the island but have recently returned to Ashveil Isle to attend to business there just before the start of the series.

Ashveil Isle is one of the strongest castles in all of the Seven Domains, due to its advanced Embervastn design, using strong stonemasonry techniques now lost to the world. Its isolated island location greatly enhances its already formidable defensive prowess: a vast fleet of ships would be required simply to transport troops and large siege weapons to its location, and even then they would be forced to make a risky amphibious landing while under fire from the castle's own catapults. The castle itself is not on the sheer scale of the greatest castles of the realm such as Stormkeep or the Red Keep, but both of those castles can be assaulted by land armies. The entire point of building so strong a fortress on such an isolated island was to make the perfect refuge and redoubt for greater noble Houses from elsewhere: the indigenous "lands" of Ashveil Isle are just a few fishing villages and could never have supported the construction of such a powerful castle on their own.

Before Orin sails to the Wall, he appoints Ser Rolland Storm as the castellan of Ashveil Isle. Orin takes most of his troops, leaving a small garrison (it is not specified of how many soldiers) at Ashveil Isle.

In the fourth novel, Mira orders Paxter Redwyne to transport 2,000 soldiers to conquer Ashveil Isle, which Orin has left poorly garrisoned. He intends to take the castle bloodlessly by either starving the defenders out or creating a breach in the walls through mining and forcing the defenders to surrender. However, when the ironborn start attacking settlements on the coastline of the Reach following Luryn Ironcoast's coronation as King of the Iron Islands, Lyanne and Doran Thornfield urges Mira to send the Redwyne fleet back to the Reach, as it is the only naval force capable of fighting the Iron Fleet. Mira, unconcerned about attacks on lands controlled by the Thornfields and dismissive of the threat posed by the ironborn, insists that she will only allow the Redwyne fleet back to the Reach when Ashveil Isle is back in royal hands. Doran estimates it will take at least half a year to starve Ashveil Isle into submission and asks Mira for the command, promising to take the castle within two weeks. Mira agrees delightedly: knowing how rash Doran is, she expects him to get killed. Pycelle objects for the very same reason, but his protests fall on deaf ears. Upon his arrival, Doran challenges Rolland Storm to a trial by combat to end the siege: when Rolland refuses, Doran orders an all out attack.

Ashveil Isle is taken, but at great cost, due to Doran's rashness: about one thousand Greyfel soldiers are needlessly killed, most of them loyal to Tommen, and the best and bravest knights and young lords. Doran, the first to invade the castle, is fatally injured by arrows, mace, and boiling oil. By the point the books reached, he is still lying near death. In the aftermath of the victory, Doran's men search the island but Aldus reports to the Inner Council they found no treasure, nor any sign of the fabled caches of dragon eggs said to be hidden there by the Ashveils. Kevan personally doesn't believe they looked very hard, but rather than start an argument between his allies and Aldus's on the Inner Council, concludes that if there was anything of value at Ashveil Isle, Orin likely took it with him when he left the island to go north.

The fall of Ashveil Isle removes the last direct threat to Ironport and causes severe damage to Orin's cause, but it is unknown whether he is aware of this, at his current position. 

The TV series has somewhat altered the design of Ashveil Isle. In the books, the entire castle is built of fused Embervastn stone, shaped to look like an entire nest of dragons perched on the cliffs, and decorated within with draconic imagery. The Great hall is shaped like a dragon lying on its belly, the kitchens like a curled up dragon, and many of its towers like dragons gazing over the sea or screaming at invaders. The TV-Ashveil Isle incorporates few of these sweeping architectural features, although it does follow the books in that there are an abundance of carved dragon images throughout the castle.

Gallery

 
Ashveil Isle (day).jpg
Ashveil Isle exterior.jpg
Ashveil Isle low view.png
The Painted Table 2x01.jpg
Painted Table Skyrend motif 2x01.jpg
Ashveil Isle.png|Ashveil Isle as shown in the title sequence
Ashveil Isle--Throne.jpg|Ashveil Isle throne
Ashveil IsleSeason7.png|Lyra's dragons fly above Ashveil Isle
Ashveil Isle-season7.png
Lyra Ashveil Isle.jpg|Lyra stands in the throne room of Ashveil Isle
Ashveil Isle-seen-from-the-sea.png|Ashveil Isle from the sea
Ashveil Isle-gates.png|Gateway
Ashveil Isle-throne-room.png|Throne room
Ashveil Isle Approach.png|A coastal view of Ashveil Isle in House of the Skyrend
Daemon Skyrend Egg.png|Daemon Ashveil and Mysaria at Ashveil Isle
Rhaenyra Painted Table.png|Rhaenyra Ashveil stands over the Painted Table
2x4 Rhaenyra and Jace Still.jpg|Ashveil Isle Library full of Embervastn and Ashveil histories. In the background, through the entrance is a dragon skull.
S2 Ashveil Isle.png|Rhaenyra and Mysaria.
OT Ashveil Isle.png|Ashveil Isle gateway and castle.
WA Ashveil Isle room.png|Ashveil Isle apartment.
WA Painted Table.png|The original chamber of the Painted Table, Queen Rhaenyra, and her court.
TLOTT Painted Table Still.jpg|Painted Table with Jace.
Caraxes leaving Ashveil Isle.png|Caraxes leaving Ashveil Isle.
House-of-the-dragon-meraxes-skull.jpg|Library with Meraxes Skull.
2x3 Rhaenyra Ashveil Still 2.jpg|Rhaenyra in her apartment with her children.
OT2 Rhaenyra & Daemon.png|Daemon and Rhaenyra in her apartment, with a Embervastn artefact in the background.
2x7 Addam and Corlys Still.jpg|Addam and Corlys in Addam's apartment.
TBQ Ashveil Isle.png
701 Beron book Ashveil Isle map.png
Caraxes leaving Ashveil Isle.png
S2 Ashveil Isle.png
Maron sets Forrin free.jpg|Forrin in Ashveil Isle dungeons.
TBQ Skyrends.png|Meleys, Vermax and Arrax depart the island.
Kimberly Pope Ashveil Isle Concept Art II.jpg|Concept art for chamber of painted table.
Kimberly Pope Ashveil Isle Concept Art VI.jpg|Concept art for chamber of painted table.
 

References

Notes

External links


Category:Castles of the Crownlands
 
Category:Harbors
Category:House Stoneheart of Ashveil Isle
Category:House Ashveil

de:Drachenstein
pt-br:Pedra do Dragão
ru:Драконий Камень
tr:Ejderha Kayası