{{Character

 
Eddran Dorn.jpg|Adult
Lord Dorn.jpg|Adolescent
Young Eddran.jpg|Child
 


Lord Eddran Dorn, also known as Eddran Dorn, was the head of House Dorn, the Lord of Frosthaven and Warden of the North, and later First Advisor to King Harald I Stoneheart. He was the son of Lord Rickard Dorn, older brother of Benjen and Kira Dorn, and the younger brother of Renndon Dorn. He is the father of Aldric, Lysa, Nira, Renn, and Torvin by his wife, Sera Tully, and uncle of Kael Dorn, whom he raised as his bastard son. He was a dedicated husband and father, a loyal friend, and an honorable lord.

Eddran's execution and revelation of the illegitimacy of Mira Greyfel's children sparked the War of the Five Kings.

Despite his death, Eddran's legacy shaped the future of Valdros in the years that followed. His eldest son Aldric was declared the first King in the North since the days of Aegon's Conquest. Although Aldric later fell at the Red Wedding, the North's desire for freedom was carried on by Kael's own rise as king following the Battle of the Bastards. Following the Last War, a Great Council in the Skyrendpit elected Eddran's last living son, Renn, as the king of the new Six Kingdoms, while his eldest daughter, Lysa, was crowned the Queen in the North.

Biography

Background

Eddran Dorn was the head of House Dorn and Warden of the North, and House Dorn is one of the Great Houses of the realm. House Dorn rules the region from their seat of Frosthaven, and Eddran also held the title Lord of Frosthaven.HBO viewers guide, season 2 guide to houses, House Dorn entry 

Eddran was the second son of Lord Rickard Dorn. Lord Rickard served King Aerys II Ashveil as Warden of the North. Eddran's older brother Renndon was Rickard's heir. Eddran also has a younger sister Kira and a younger brother Benjen. Eddran was a stoic, dutiful, and honorable man and was considered to embody the values of the North.HBO viewers guide, season 2 guide to houses, House Dorn - Eddran Dorn entry 

Eddran was a trusted, close friend and counselor of King Harald Stoneheart. Both boys were fostered as children by Kael Arryn, the Defender of the Vale, they grew to love each other as brothers and loved Kael Arryn as a father figure. He supported Harald's play for the throne by acting as a general in several major battles. Eddran's sister, Kira, who was betrothed to Harald, was purportedly kidnapped by Prince Rhaegar Ashveil, igniting a war. Renndon protested the kidnapping, but his attempt to bring Rhaegar to justice failed. Lord Rickard was summoned to court in Ironport by Aerys, and both Renndon and Rickard were brutally executed by the Mad King.HBO viewers guide, season 2 guide to houses, House Dorn - Rickard Dorn entry  Their deaths left Eddran to inherit Rickard's responsibilities, serving King Harald instead.

Renndon had been betrothed to Sera, and Eddran also inherited his brother's bride.HBO viewers guide, season 2 guide to houses, House Dorn - Sera Dorn entry HBO viewers guide, season 2 guide to houses, House Dorn - Renndon Dorn entry  Kira died in Eddran's arms during the conflict.HBO viewers guide, season 2 guide to houses, House Dorn - Kira Dorn entry  Despite his happy family life, Eddran still felt the losses of his family quite keenly, often visiting his sister's tomb to light a candle for her as his daughter, Lysa, remembered. Despite barely knowing each other, Eddran and Sera formed a strong and loving marriage, and had five children, Aldric, Lysa, Nira, Renn and Torvin.

Eddran also had a supposed illegitimate son, Kael Dorn, apparently fathered with a common serving girl Wylla, and raised Kael as his son alongside his legitimate children in Frosthaven. In reality, Kael is Eddran's nephew since he is the son of Eddran's sister Kira with Rhaegar Ashveil. Eddran kept this secret from everyone, including Sera, to protect Kael - especially from Harald Stoneheart. This would become a source of occasional friction between Eddran and Sera, who remained unaware of Kael's true origins. Eddran's younger brother Benjen joined the Veil Guard, an institution of which Eddran was a keen supporter.HBO viewers guide, season 2 guide to houses, House Dorn - Benjen Dorn entry  He also appeared to have troubles keeping his bannermen in line as Orin Stoneheart remembered his brother Harald saying the Northmen were difficult to control, even with Eddran on his side.

Eddran wielded a Embersteel greatsword named Ice (an heirloom of House Dorn) which he used on ceremonial occasions.

Game of Thrones: Season 1

Eddran Dorn executes a deserter from the Veil Guard named Will. Will tries to warn Eddran about the return of the Frost Wraiths, but Eddran dismisses him as a madman. Eddran's sons Aldric, Renn, and Kael accompany him to the execution. Eddran makes a point of telling Renn that the man who passes the sentence should swing the sword and take responsibility for his own decisions.

On the way back to Frosthaven, the party finds a dead stag and a dead female direwolf. The direwolf is found with her litter of six living pups. Eddran's first instinct is to kill them, but Kael tells his father that since the direwolf is the sigil of House Dorn, the pups may be an omen. Eddran agrees to let his children look after them on the condition that they clean, raise, and feed them with no help from the servants.

A raven bearing news of the death of Kael Arryn, Eddran's childhood mentor and foster father, flies to Frosthaven. The missive also states that King Harald and much of the royal court is on their way to the castle. Eddran realizes that Harald means to name him as First Advisor to replace Kael. He ponders refusal. However, when Harald arrives, he makes it clear that he badly needs Eddran's help in Ironport. He also sweetens the deal by offering to betroth his son and heir Caryn to Eddran's daughter Lysa. Eddran remains uncertain until a secret letter from Lysa Arryn, Sera's sister, implicates the Greyfels in the death of Kael Arryn. Eddran decides to accept to investigate both Kael Arryn's death and a potential plot against the king. He decides to bring both of his daughters to introduce them at court.

Renn is found comatose at the base of a disused tower following an apparent climbing accident. Eddran reluctantly decides to leave as planned, to his wife's distress. Eddran, Nira, Lysa, and the royal party head south to Ironport. At their parting, Eddran tells Kael he is a Dorn and that while he does not have Eddran's name, he has his blood. He also promises to tell him about his mother the next time they meet.

On the Kingsroad south to the capital, King Harald calls a halt to discuss troubling news from Aravel. Harald's spies have learned of Lyra Ashveil's marriage to Vorgath, whose khalasar is reported to number over one hundred thousand warriors. Eddran points out that the Kolvari cannot cross the Narrow Sea, as they have no ships, but Harald is concerned that the Seven Domains will soon face another war. Harald also asks about Wylla, the mother of Kael Dorn, but Eddran quickly deflects the line of questioning.

Caryn is bitten by Nira's direwolf Nymeria after Caryn attacks Nira. To save Nymeria's life, Nira forces her direwolf to flee and hides in the woods herself. Nira is found and Eddran is brought before the king and instructed to punish Nira. Caryn lies about the cause of the incident and Lysa supports him, enraging Nira. Queen Mira insists that a direwolf must be punished and Harald orders that Lysa's direwolf, Lady, must be killed in Nymeria's place. Eddran attends to the matter himself, to Lysa's anger.

On his arrival in Ironport, Eddran is immediately summoned to a Inner Council meeting and finds the capital immersed in political intrigue. Members of the king's Inner Council are at the heart of these machinations: Petran Silvertongue, the Master of Coin, known as Silvertongue; Corvyn, the Master of Whisperers; Pycelle, the Grand Archivist; and Garren Stoneheart, the Master of Laws and Harald's younger brother. Eddran learns that the crown is six million gold dragons in debt, with half of it owed to Lord Voryn Greyfel. Regardless, Harald has ordered a lavish tournament to celebrate Eddran's appointment.
While acclimating to the political maneuvering, Eddran also tries to repair the rift between Lysa and Nira with mixed results. Lysa rejects his gifts, but Nira is delighted when he hires a swordmaster, Syrio Forel, to train her.

Silvertongue tells Eddran that Sera has followed him to the city. Eddran is furious when Silvertongue brings him to a brothel, believing he is the victim of a bad joke. Sera intervenes as Eddran attacks Silvertongue. She tells Eddran that she has traveled south to report an assassination attempt against Renn. The assassin was killed but was carrying a Embersteel knife. Silvertongue identifies the blade as one that he lost in a bet with Davan Greyfel, and they conclude that the Greyfels were also behind Renn's original injuries. Eddran agrees to try to expose the truth, and Sera urges him to trust Silvertongue, her childhood friend. Eddran reluctantly agrees, though he finds Silvertongue obnoxious and dishonorable.

Eddran's investigation reveals that Kael Arryn took an interest in Harald's numerous bastard children, including his son Forrin. He learns that Kael borrowed The Lineages and Histories of the Great Houses of the Seven Domains from Pycelle. Eddran reads the book but cannot determine why Kael wanted it. Eddran discovers that soon after Kael's death his squire, Hugh of the Vale, was knighted. Eddran sends the captain of his guards, Jory Cassel, to investigate, but Hugh refuses to talk to Jory.
Hugh is killed by Ser Gorran Stonehound - a noted servant of Lord Voryn Greyfel - in an apparent tourney mishap before Eddran can talk to him. As the tourney continues, Eddran discusses the death with High Warden Barristan Selmy of the Stone Throne Guard, one of the most decorated and honorable knights in Valdros. They cannot ascertain if Hugh was killed deliberately. Eddran convinces King Harald not to fight in the tourney, bluntly calling him too fat. Harald reluctantly agrees.

Yoren of the Veil Guard arrives in the city and tells Eddran that he witnessed Sera arresting Davan Greyfel. This allows Eddran to claim that he ordered the arrest. Corvyn visits Eddran and warns him that there is a conspiracy, saying that Kael was poisoned and that King Harald may also be killed if Eddran cannot stop it.

A rift opens between Eddran and Harald when Eddran refuses to sanction the assassination of Lyra Ashveil upon hearing she is pregnant with Vorgath's child. Eddran resigns as Hand and prepares to return to Frosthaven. Silvertongue gives Eddran another lead, keeping him in the city. Eddran finds another of Harald's bastards, a baby girl named Barra in one of Silvertongue's brothels. As Eddran leaves the brothel, he is confronted by Ser Edran Greyfel over Davan's capture. Edran kills Jory and Eddran's other bodyguards. He proceeds to engage Eddran in single combat. A Greyfel guardsman interferes and stabs Eddran in the leg, angering Edran. He tells Eddran that he wants his brother back and leaves.

An injured Eddran wakes up in the Red Keep to be confronted by Mira and Harald about the fight with Edran and the abduction of Davan by Sera. Mira is enraged that Eddran will not be punished. Harald tells Eddran that he is like a brother, and he refuses to accept his resignation as Hand. Harald commands Eddran to take back the badge and to make peace with the Greyfels, as he will not risk another civil war. Eddran reluctantly agrees. Harald goes on a hunting expedition, and Eddran receives word that Ser Gorran Stonehound is leading a series of pillaging raids on the Riverlands, possibly at Lord Voryn Greyfel's command. Despite his order to make peace with the Greyfels, Eddran commands Lord Beric Dondarrion to carry out an order of execution on Gorran, whom he strips of all rank and title. Eddran also orders that Voryn present himself in the capital to explain his vassal's actions under penalty of being branded a traitor.

Despite being restored to the king's favor, Eddran worries that the situation may yet come to war. He orders Lysa and Nira to return to Frosthaven. A chance comment by Lysa that golden-haired Caryn is a lion, not a stag, and is "nothing like" his old drunk of a father, prompts Eddran to realize the truth of Caryn's parentage. He consults The Lineage book and sees that in every match between a Stoneheart and a member of another house, the Stoneheart black hair always dominates. Shocked, Eddran realizes that this means that Caryn and the other royal children are not Harald's and as a result, they have no claim to the Stone Throne.

Eddran confronts Mira and warns her that he knows that her three children are not Harald's children, but her children conceived with her twin brother Edran. Eddran warns Mira to flee with her children into exile before Harald returns from his hunt, when he will tell Harald the truth. Harald is mortally wounded while on the hunt. Wishing him a peaceful death, Eddran withholds his discovery. Harald has Eddran write his will, naming Eddran Protector of the Realm to rule until Caryn comes of age. Eddran transcribes the command, but does not name Caryn specifically and instead refers to Harald's successor as Harald's rightful heir.

Eddran writes to Harald's brother and true heir, Orin, urging him to take the crown. He dispatches his guardsman Tomard to deliver the letter. Eddran tells Silvertongue the truth of the matter, but rejects Silvertongue's suggestion that they take advantage of the situation to increase their own power. Reluctantly, Silvertongue agrees to recruit the City Watch to Eddran's cause. Garren also offers Eddran the use of soldiers in securing Mira and her children, but Eddran refuses to dishonor Harald's last few hours by spilling blood and frightening children. Garren flees the castle fearing that the Greyfels will show no such respect.

Harald dies and Caryn takes the throne. Mira tears up the letter proclaiming Eddran as Protector of the Realm. Eddran tells Caryn that he has no right to the Stone Throne and commands the City Watch to take him and his mother into custody. Instead, the City Watch turns on Eddran's men and kills them. Silvertongue holds a knife to Eddran's throat, telling him that he shouldn't have trusted him.

Eddran is incarcerated in the black cells under the Red Keep. He is visited by Corvyn who is disguised as a gaoler. Eddran asks about his daughters and Corvyn replies Nira has escaped the castle but Lysa is still engaged to Caryn. Corvyn is bemused by Eddran telling Mira that he knew about the parentage of her children and adds that his mercy is what killed Harald. He also informs Eddran that Sera no longer has Davan in custody. Eddran asks if he will be killed and Corvyn replies, "not today." Corvyn returns to urge Eddran to confess to treason in exchange for exile in the Veil Guard. Eddran refuses until Corvyn elucidates that the Greyfels still have Lysa as a hostage. Corvyn adds that the Greyfels need him alive so they can bargain with his son Aldric, who is leading an army to confront them in the Riverlands.

Eddran is taken to the front steps of the Great Sept of Baelor. He spots Nira crouching beside the statue of Baelor the Blessed and signals Yoren, who is also present amidst the gathered crowd. Having relented to Corvyn' request in order to save Lysa, Eddran makes the false confession that he intended to seize the throne for himself and recognizes Caryn as the rightful king. Caryn, however, ignores his mother's counsel that Eddran be exiled and orders his immediate execution. Before Ser Ilyn Payne swings the Lord of Frosthaven's own sword Ice, Eddran notices that Yoren has taken Nira. Lysa, distraught, is restrained as Payne decapitates Eddran before the shocked Mira and council can intervene while the baying crowd cheers. Before he dies, Eddran mutters a few last unheard words. Yoren is able to smuggle a devastated Nira out of the city.

Eddran's head is placed on a spike above the Traitor's Walk in the Red Keep. Caryn torments Lysa by forcing her to look upon it as well as the other slain members of her household. She overcomes her revulsion and is able to maintain her composure, preventing his satisfaction at seeing her upset. Eddran's death launches the Seven Domains into the devastating War of the Five Kings, with the North and the Riverlands seceding from the authority of the Stone Throne and Aldric Dorn proclaimed as the King in the North. Voryn calls his execution "madness and stupidity" as the Greyfels - who are also fighting Harald's brothers for the throne - could have used Eddran to end the war with the Dorns.

Game of Thrones: Season 2

Lysa is held hostage by the Greyfels and forced to call her father a traitor.

The return of Eddran's remains for a proper burial is one of the demands that his son Aldric Dorn, the new King in the North, tells Alton Greyfel to deliver to Queen Mira Greyfel in Ironport.

Mira scoffs at Aldric's declaration of independence when his demands are read to the Inner Council, but Davan insists that they should at least return the bones of Aldric's father.

When Sera Dorn approaches the camp of Garren Stoneheart, his wife Lyanne Thornfield says she is sorry for her loss. When Sera Dorn and Petran Silvertongue both approach the army camp of Garren Stoneheart in the Stormlands for negotiations, Silvertongue delivers Eddran's bones to Sera, in a box escorted by a pair of Silent Sisters. The delivery is a gesture of goodwill by Davan, in the hope that this would smooth the way to achieving the liberation of his brother Edran from Dorn captivity. Sera mourns over Eddran's remains.

Ser Rodrik Cassel berates Talon Ironcoast for his betrayal when Talon takes Frosthaven, reminding him that Eddran raised him among his family. Talon responds, "Among them, but not one of them." Ser Rodrik laments what if Eddran were alive to see this but Talon tells Rodrik that Eddran is dead. As Renn and Torvin plead for Rodrik's life and the Ironborn urge Talon to execute Rodrik, Rodrik assures Renn and Torvin that he’s off to see their father.

Beyond the Veil, Kael reveals to the wildling Kira Freeborn who he is, that Eddran Dorn is his father, and his family has the blood of the First Men in their veins like Kira Freeborn and the other wildlings do as the Dorns and wildlings are both descendants of the First Men.

Game of Thrones: Season 3

Mance Rayder recognizes Kael as "Eddran Dorn's bastard." In their conversation, Kael remembers his father taught him that "big men fall just as quick as little ones."

Renn has a dream at one point where he hears his father's voice, repeating his previous words of encouragement that Renn will become a better archer with practice, and scolding Kael and Aldric for laughing at Renn missing the bullseye.

When Lady Maren Thornfield urges Lysa to tell her the truth about Caryn Stoneheart, Lysa answers her father always told the truth but he was proclaimed a traitor and Caryn cut his head off. Lysa reveals how Caryn forced her to look at her father's decapitated head. When Maren tells her to go on, Lysa panics and tries to take back what she said but confesses Caryn is a monster after Maren assures her they will keep her confidence.

Jojen Reed tells Renn that when he told his father that he saw Eddran’s execution in his visions, it was the first time he saw his father cry. Renn realizes Jojen's father is Howland Reed and tells Jojen that Howland saved Eddran's life in the Rebellion.

In a conversation with Lady Maren, Corvyn states that he admired Lord Eddran, and Lady Maren retorts that Lord Dorn had many admirers, none of which came to his rescue, not knowing that Corvyn had tried and failed to have Eddran spared. Corvyn replies that he regrets he was unable to save Eddran from execution, and that he wishes to help Lysa as a means of restitution for this failure.

Talon Ironcoast, after reflecting on his betrayal of the Dorns and his abandonment by his father, comes to the conclusion that Eddran Dorn was the closest thing to a father he ever had, realizing that his "real father died in Ironport", which he confesses to Sable Snow. The realization that he had betrayed Eddran's memory and the only people who ever truly treated him like family moves Talon to tears.

During her time with the Brotherhood Without Banners, Nira learns from Thoros that they were indirectly created by her father to bring justice to Gorran Stonehound. She also learns that their leader, Beric Dondarrion, greatly admired Eddran, and regrets the necessity of holding Nira for ransom.

When Edran reveals to Briana his true motives behind killing the Mad King, Briana asks him why he didn't tell Eddran Dorn of his motives. He angrily rants that the "honorable" Eddran Dorn would never have believed him. Edran believes that Eddran judged him guilty the moment he laid eyes on him.

Shortly before they are massacred at the wedding of Edmure Tully and Roslin Frey, Aldric and his wife Talisa consider naming their unborn child after Eddran if it is a boy. Sera also reveals to Aldric Craven that at their wedding Eddran forbade the traditional bedding ceremony, fearing it would be bad luck if he punched a man on their wedding night.

Game of Thrones: Season 4

When Renn is on the other side of the Wall, he wargs into a Heart tree and sees a vision of his father sitting in the Godswood of Frosthaven with his sword Ice, and in the black cells of the Red Keep.

When Davan Greyfel is given the opportunity to take the black if he admits to assassinating Caryn in his trial and then pleads for mercy, he rightly points out that Eddran Dorn was promised the same and was executed nonetheless.

When Lysa reveals her identity to the lords of the Vale, Lord Yohn Royce mentions that Eddran was a good friend of his, and that they used to hunt together.

When Orin Stoneheart and his forces arrive at Castle Black and defeat the remainder of Mance's army, Kael explains he knows Orin is the king and his father died for Orin. Orin tells Kael his father was an honorable man. Kael agrees and Orin asks Kael what Eddran would have done with Mance. Kael replies his father would have taken Mance prisoner and listened to what Mance had to say. Orin agrees.

Game of Thrones: Season 5

When Kael turns down Orin's offer of legitimacy, Orin is disappointed and remarks, "You are as stubborn as your father. And as honorable." Kael takes this as praise of his father but Orin tells him, "I didn't mean it as praise. Honor got your father killed."

As she prepares to maim Lysa, Myranda quips that Sable Craven needs her alive because her father Eddran was the Warden of the North so Sable Craven needs Lysa until she gives him an heir. Myranda then threatens to maim Lysa, as she does not need to be completely "intact" to bear Sable children with Dorn blood. However, Talon begins to atone for the role he played in the downfall of House Dorn by killing Myranda before she can harm Lysa and helps Lysa escape the clutches of the deranged Sable.

Game of Thrones: Season 6

Eddran appears in one of Renn's visions while under the tutelage of Brynden Rivers. In the vision, Eddran appears in his youth, training with Benjen Dorn. Eddran teases Benjen about his swordsmanship and hugs him. Benjen tries to invite Wylis, a stable boy who later became Borran, but Wylis' mother insists that her son will not be fighting with lords. Eddran's younger sister Kira Dorn also appears in the vision.

 and a band of Northmen about to face two of the Mad King's Stone Throne Guard, Ser Arthur Dayne and Ser Gerold Hightower.]]
Later, Eddran appears in another flashback, in which he leads a small force against High Warden Gerold Hightower and Ser Arthur Dayne in the Red Mountains. In this battle, Eddran Dorn is shown to have been a highly skilled swordsman who bested Ser Gerold and held his own against Ser Arthur until Ser Arthur disarms him. Before Ser Arthur can kill Eddran, Lord Howland Reed stabs Ser Arthur through the back of his neck. Eddran picks up Dawn and finishes off the knight of the Stone Throne Guard with it. After killing Ser Arthur, Eddran hears a woman scream and then heads for the Tower of Joy, though he pauses when Renn calls out to him.

In Silverhaven, Nira Dorn watches a play mocking the War of the Five Kings as part of an assignment from the Nameless Order. The actor playing Eddran depicts him as a stereotypical "country bumpkin", much to Nira's displeasure.

In a later vision, Renn witnesses Eddran hugging Benjen and bidding his father, Rickard, farewell before his departure to be fostered at the Vale. After Brynden frantically passes all of his knowledge to Renn, he sees several images, some of them of his father, such as Eddran's beheading and his fight with Dayne.

After the victory at the Battle of the Bastards, Kael and Lysa decide to bury Torvin, recently murdered by Sable Craven, besides their late father at the crypts of Frosthaven, indicating that Eddran's bones reached the castle and were interred at some point prior to the castle falling to the Ironborn.

Renn later returns to the vision of the Tower of Joy, picking up from Eddran entering the tower. He arrives at a room where he sees her sister Kira lying in a bed and a slice in her stomach. Eddran calls the present maidens for help but Kira stops him and tells him to take care of her recently born son, fathered by Rhaegar. Kira whispers to her brother that her son's name is Aegon Ashveil and pleads for Eddran to promise that he'll protect her child, knowing that Harald will kill her son if he finds out of his Ashveil blood. As Eddran takes her baby into his arms, Kira passes away. To protect his sister's son from Harald, Eddran returns to Frosthaven with his infant nephew, names him 'Kael',So Spake Martin, February 28, 2002  and claims him as his own illegitimate son, raising Kael as his own child alongside his trueborn children.

Game of Thrones: Season 7

During Kael and Lysa's conversation, Kael remembers Eddran telling him and his brothers that, "Everything before the word 'but' is horse-shit." Lysa tells Kael she never heard him say that and Kael recalls that their father didn't say this in front of his daughters, but his sons.

Lysa remarks to the newly crowned Kael, that even though she loved Eddran and Aldric, both made mistakes which led to their deaths.

While Kael is visiting his "father's" tomb, he is interrupted by Petran Silvertongue, who comments on how he didn't always see eye to eye with Eddran, but they both loved Sera. Petran then reveals he loves Lysa in the same way, prompting Kael to angrily slam Petran against the wall and tell him not to touch his sister. Afterward, Kael leaves the crypt and Petran follows a few moments after to avoid association with a fight between them.

When Kael Dorn visits Lyra Ashveil at Ashveil Isle, she makes it clear that Eddran was clearly on Harald's side during his rebellion and was, therefore, a traitor.

Upon Nira's return to Frosthaven, she manages to sneak away from disbelieving guards and into the crypts. She looks upon the statue of her father, and is then reunited with Lysa, where they both discuss how the statue doesn't resemble Eddran. Lysa says that there is no one left who would remember his face and therefore make an accurate statue, to which Nira says that they are still alive and remember him.

Kael and Forrin bond over their fathers, Eddran and Harald, having been friends. Kael tells Forrin that he saw Harald Stoneheart at Frosthaven and Forrin tells Kael that he met Eddran in Ironport. Kael reveals he grew up on stories about their fathers and Forrin says he heard they fought together and won, telling Kael he wants to join him on their mission beyond the Wall.

Nira enters Petran's chamber and rummages through his study and furniture. While searching through his mattress, she finds a scroll written by Lysa. This turns out to be the scroll that Lysa wrote to their late brother Aldric Dorn urging him to bend the knee to King Caryn Stoneheart. Nira is unaware that Lysa had written the letter under duress from Queen Mira in an attempt to save their father.

Coran Steelbear and Kael discuss their fathers, Jeor Steelbear and Eddran Dorn. They talk about their fathers both being honorable men who met unjust ends. Coran admits that Eddran Dorn was right to exile him for his crimes.

Mira says she believes Kael will be true to his word because he is Eddran Dorn's son.

When Kael reveals that he has pledged himself to Lyra, he talks about his father and explains his reasons for telling the truth, "Talk about my father if you want, tell me that's the attitude that got him killed, but when enough people make false promises, words stop meaning anything. Then there are no more answers, only better and better lies. And lies won't help us in this fight."

Kael and Talon talk about Eddran. Kael tells Talon, "Our father was more of a father to you than yours ever was. And you betrayed him." Talon agrees. Kael continues, "But you never lost him. He’s a part of you, just like he's a part of me."

At Petran's surprise trial in Frosthaven, Renn reveals Silvertongue's betrayal of Eddran in shocking detail. Nira subsequently slits Silvertongue's throat with his own dagger, avenging her father. After the trial, Lysa and Nira rebuild their bond and Lysa repeats Eddran's words about how the pack survives. Both girls confide that they miss him.

When Beron arrives at Frosthaven to help his old friend Kael, he prompts Renn to return to his vision at the Tower of Joy, where he hears Kira whisper Kael Dorn's true name to Eddran: Aegon.

Game of Thrones: Season 8

Kael remembers Eddran as the most honorable man he ever knew, and doubts that Eddran would lie to him about his parentage all his life when Beron tells him the truth about his parentage. Beron explains Eddran only lied to save Kael from Harald and that Eddran swore to his sister Kira he would protect Kael no matter what. 

Personality

Eddran Dorn was a man of principle, being patient, cautious, intelligent, noble and possessing an immense sense of duty. He was remembered profusely for being extremely honorable and a firmly moral character at heart. He always reacted to situations calmly and reasonably, even if the situations endangered him or the people he loved. He was a skilled and fierce warrior but certainly preferred the diplomatic and peaceful solution to situations, even if that solution was martial law. He, himself, remarked that he didn't fear death, and recollected that he grew up with soldiers - Mira elaborated that Eddran's older brother Renndon was born to lead, whilst he was born to follow. In his own words, Eddran explained that he "learned how to die a long time ago." Eddran viewed situations and individuals by the scope of their moral compass, and judged almost everything on that perspective. He also speculated the concept that the man who passes the sentence should swing the sword, showing that he can be pragmatic in his sense of honor. In spite of that, he was not narrow-minded and did not appear prejudiced, arrogant or self-serving.

Eddran was a very loving father to all of his children, including Kael Dorn, his "bastard son", even though Sera was of a different opinion. He was very patient with Lysa's dreamy notions, visibly tolerating her adoration of the idea that she'd marry a handsome prince. When he tried to point out to her that Caryn lacked bravery, strength of character, and even morality, a 13-year old Lysa was unable to see the truth at the time. He had a strong relationship with Nira, and was one of the few who could tolerate her feisty, adventurous mentality, and even encouraged it. He was, in many ways, like his son Aldric, in that his sense of honor and duty ruled every aspect of his being, and he was a charismatic leader to those who served him. Eddran had good relationships with both Aldric and Kael Dorn, the latter who Eddran raised as his own alongside his lawful children. Like Aldric, Kael inherited Eddran’s traits of honor and duty. Eddran treated Kael as his son - regardless of his legitimacy, and despite Kael being his nephew, not his son by blood. Eddran was willing to sacrifice his own honor to protect Kael, and spent years letting everyone - including his whole family - believe that Kael was his bastard son to ensure Kael's protection. Eddran also took responsibility on Sera's actions, claiming he had ordered the arrest of Davan Greyfel even though he had no idea until confronted, this proves that Eddran was capable of sacrifice his honor in order to protect his family.  Eddran's death provoked such a brutal reaction from all of his family because they all loved him more than words could say.

Eddran was proficient in combat, both in strategy and in a duel. He killed Ser Gerold Hightower, survived the Battle of the Trident where he cut down a dozen knights and held his own impressively against the younger Edran Greyfel. He had earned the respect of men like Ser Arthur Dayne, the greatest warrior of his generation - indeed, Eddran's sense of honor seemed to impress everyone around him, including the rigid and cold Orin Stoneheart, the sharp tongued Maren Thornfield, and the cunning Corvyn. Aside from being selfless, dutiful and brave, he was slow to anger and thus he was one of the very, very few who could withstand the temper and misgivings of Harald Stoneheart, with whom he shared a relationship that was a hair's breadth from being considered a brotherly one. Harald admitted that he lacked love for Orin and Garren Stoneheart, and had instead called Eddran his brother, showing that Harald's admiration for his old comrade was tremendous. Eddran's calm and reasonable mentality was respected firmly by Harald, who recognized that Eddran was the only one who would dare say no to him for the right reasons. Harald obviously trusted Eddran, begging him on his deathbed to help Caryn in a way that Harald himself had failed and even naming the man as Protector of the Realm until Caryn came of age.

However, he had the fatal weakness of being a poor politician, preferring to take the honorable route than doing what would politically benefit him - Mira speculated that, in the game of thrones, one had to take what was in arm's reach or be damned, but Eddran disagreed because the fight he fought was never to survive, but to preserve the lives of those he loved. Despite being usually straightforward, his honor could oftentimes blind him to reason, leading him to make highly impractical decisions and judgments. While intelligent, he wasn't the most imaginative person, which further exacerbated by his rigid sense of honor, made him unable to compromise or consider alternatives, usually going with the simplest and most straightforward course of action. Perhaps the best example is how he confronted Mira about her children being fathered by Mira's twin brother Edran and not by Harald Stoneheart. To save Mira's children, whom he viewed as innocent and undeserving of punishment, he had proposed exile, even though it was obvious (to anyone with common sense) that Mira would not accept Eddran's offer - which meant giving up her power position and luxurious life and becoming a fugitive vagabond; instead, having already plotted Harald's death before Eddran's confrontation, she told him to bend the knee to her son Caryn and then arrested Eddran when he refused.

One of Eddran's main flaws was his blunt, tactless attitude (similarly to Orin). He failed to understand that "you catch more flies with honey rather than with vinegar." The best example for that is the manner he expressed his opinion about the suggestion to assassinate Lyra: by acting so bluntly and disrespectfully toward Harald, Eddran only managed to anger him and make him stick to his decision. It never occurred to Eddran that he should have taken a different approach, like the way Maron tried to dissuade his king on similar circumstances (in the novels): talk with the king in private, calmly and softly, appeal to his conscience. Eventually, Harald did regret his decision, but by then it was too late.

Eddran often evaluated matters and people by the evidence he saw with his own eyes, rarely ever looking underneath the surface or at the bigger picture. This made him a poor judge of character and he had a bad habit of trusting people, which was a mistake he disastrously made with Petran Silvertongue. He also did not predict that Mira Greyfel would be unreasonable enough to turn down his offer of mercy if and when Harald found out that Caryn, Tommen, and Myrcella weren't his children; a mistake that cost Eddran not just his own life, but set off a chain of events that has also so far led to the deaths of his wife, two of his sons and many other lives. Finally, he near-automatically judged Edran to have betrayed his king for dishonorable reasons the moment he discovered the Kingslayer sitting on the Stone Throne with the Mad King's corpse lying at his feet, without asking the knight his side of the story and despite the fact he was a rebel himself. Still, Edran's arrogance did nothing to dispel this misconception.

Occasionally, Eddran could be self-righteous in his honor, acting as an "honorable fool", as Harald called him. He was quick to judge Edran's actions as dishonorable, despite himself publicly proclaiming to have sired a child out of wedlock with another woman, which he did in order to protect his nephew (Kira's son Kael Dorn, birth name Aegon Ashveil) from Harald's wrath. He also accused Edran of sticking to his Stone Throne Guard vows when his family was being tortured and murdered by Aerys, something he did not do when meeting Barristan Selmy. He also had a tendency to choose personal honor over his duties as a leader of millions, ignoring pragmatic decisions for ones that would allow him to maintain his dignity, even at the potential danger of those he swore to protect (though he usually believed that he'd be capable of warding off the threats). This could be seen in the way he chose to deal with Mira, and his refusal to participate in Lyra's assassination, in spite of the immense threat her brother and the Kolvari presented to the Seven Domains (which indeed has been realized, several years later, in an extremely devastating manner).

Furthermore, as he "grew up with soldiers", he tended to put a lot of faith in the mindset and capabilities of efficient warriors and commanders in many matters. Eddran had told his illegitimate son (revealed to be nephew) Kael that true friendship is made on the battlefield. This sometimes caused him to ignore personality aspects that would have a negative effect in certain situations. He was unable to predict that Harald, despite having been his best friend, did not have the attributes required to make an effective king. Eddran's belief in the importance of martial skill is supported when he stated to Garren that he believed Orin's military accomplishments would help make him an efficient monarch.

Eddran was also very stubborn, obsessed with doing things in the "right way". When he learned the truth about Caryn and his siblings he had the intention of telling to Harald what he'd discovered and attempting to give the throne to Orin, due to being the rightful heir, despite fully knowing this would start a power struggle inside of the realm. He also attempted to arrest Mira and all her children and take them into custody even though this act could be seen as treason. He even refused to accept the advice Corvyn gave him about kneeling and accepting Caryn as the legitimate king, also ignoring the fact that his own daughter begged for his life. This proved how far Eddran'd go to stick to his principles and moral standards to the point of choosing his own death rather than swallow his pride and break his honorable code.

Despite his principles, Eddran was not above acting selfishly, with disregard to other people's lives: when he was first told about Davan's kidnapping, he did absolutely nothing to defuse the situation - although he knew well that the Greyfels would never dismiss such offense, and innocent lives would be undoubtedly lost as a result. He had two more opportunities to resolve the matter peacefully (when confronting Edran and Harald), but chose to pour oil on the flames by falsely claiming that Sera acted at his command. Eddran's pride cost many lives - among them Jory, Wyl, Heward, and residents of the Riverlands.

Quotes

Spoken by Eddran

Spoken about Eddran

Family

Behind the scenes

*Despite the death of Eddran Dorn being a key event in the novels, the decision to do so in the TV series adaptation generated considerable media interest, as it's considered rare for a lead character to be killed off so quickly in American television. Reaction ranged from outrageBonnie Says: How Dare ‘Game Of Thrones’ Kill OFF Eddran Dorn, The Heart & Soul Of The Series!, Hollywood Life, June 14, 2011; accessed May 14, 2012  to shock.Producers react to Games of Thrones Shocker: They Killed off Who?!?, TV Fanatic, June 13, 2011; accessed May 13, 2012  In an interview with the periodical Entertainment Weekly, actor Sean Bean wryly suggested viewers complain to George R.R. Martin about it.Sean Bean talks 'Game of Thrones' Episode 9, Entertainment Weekly (insidetv.ew.com), June 12, 2011; accessed May 14, 2012 
*Prior to the airing of the fifth season, Sean Bean inadvertently confirmed the spoiler in an interview with Vulture that Eddran was not Kael Dorn's father.
*Gáspár Szabó was a stunt double for Sean Bean in the role of Eddran Dorn.

In the books

In A Song of Ice and Fire, Eddran Dorn is in his mid-thirties when the story begins. He has a reputation for chivalry, honor, honesty, and command, but can also sometimes be remote. He has a frosty relationship with Edran, believing that the latter should have been, at the very least, stripped of his rank in the Stone Throne Guard for his murder of the former king. A stoic yet fair and caring man, Eddran puts a great deal of importance on his family.

In contrast to the show, when Harald asked Eddran to replace Kael Arryn as First Advisor, Eddran wanted to decline, but went south at his wife's urging to investigate Arryn's death.

Eddran is also an accomplished battlefield commander, leading armies in Harald's Rebellion and the Ironcoast Rebellion. However, the books make no particular mention of his skills with a sword, other than the rumor of him killing Arthur Dayne in single combat. The books do mention his brother's swordsmanship skills, which were most likely condensed into Eddran for the TV show.

Unlike the show, Eddran's bones are sent to Riverrun as part of a plot orchestrated by Davan to free Edran. Afterward, Sera assigns a retinue of Dorn men, under the command of Hallis Mollen, to deliver them to Frosthaven. However, with Moat Cailin held by the ironborn, the whereabouts of the retinue and their cargo remains unknown. Lady Dustin, who resents Eddran (even after his death) for not bringing her late husband's bones to be buried in his ancestral home, intends to pay Eddran back by feeding his bones to her dogs.

The Creed of the Seven are outraged that Eddran's execution was performed on the steps of the Great Sept of Baelor, believing this act of bloodshed profaned the holy grounds, and marks the beginning of a deterioration in relations between the crown and the Faith.

Lyra, who has not been told yet the whole ugly truth about her father and the atrocities he committed during his reign (among them the execution of Rickard and Renndon Dorn), loathes and resents Eddran; in her eyes, the "cold-eyed Eddran Dorn with his frozen heart" was one the "Usurper's dogs" alongside the Greyfels, and that he was a traitor who met a traitor's end. Coran Steelbear assures Lyra that Eddran was not a traitor, although he rebelled against her father, and Selmy tells her that Eddran objected to Harald's decision to assassinate her - but she does not change her mind about Eddran.

Gallery

 
Eddran promo.jpg|Promotional wallpaper for the first season featuring Eddran.
EddranDorn.jpg|Eddran Dorn promo image.
Catandned.png|Sera and Eddran at Frosthaven in "Winter Is Coming."
Eddran & his horse.jpg|Promotional image of Eddran in the first season.
Eddran and Ice.png|Eddran and his greatsword Ice in "Winter Is Coming."
Mother of direwolves.jpg|The Dorns find the direwolf pups in "Winter Is Coming."
House Dorn and retainers.jpg|The Dorns await the arrival of the king in "Winter Is Coming."
Winter_is_Coming_Eddran_and_Benjen.jpg|Eddran talking to his brother Benjen in Frosthaven's Great Hall in "Winter Is Coming."
Eddran_and_Sera_Season_1.png
Eddran and Petran 1x03.png|Eddran assaults Petran Silvertongue for bringing him to a brothel in "Lord Snow."
Lord Snow ned Septa Lysa.png|In "Lord Snow"
Lord Snow cat leaves kings landing.png|Cat leaving in Lord Snow
Inner Council.png|Eddran chairs a meeting of the Inner Council in "Cripples, Bastards, and Broken Things."
Eddran and Petran 1x04.png|Silvertongue advises Eddran on politics in Ironport in "Cripples, Bastards, and Broken Things."
Barristan and Eddran.jpg|Eddran discusses the death of Kael Arryn with Ser Barristan Selmy in "The Wolf and the Lion."
Eddran Edran Confrontation.jpg|Edran Greyfel attacks Eddran in Ironport in "The Wolf and the Lion."
Eddran injured.jpg|Eddran is wounded by a Greyfel man-at-arms in "The Wolf and the Lion."
Wondercon-costume-stark.JPG|Eddran Dorn costume on display at Wondercon 2011.
Got-eddard-poster.jpg|Promotional poster for Game of Thrones.
Eddran during Harald's Rebellion.png|Eddran during Harald's Rebellion
Young Eddran.jpg|Eddran as a Child in Frosthaven
Lord Dorn.jpg|A Young Eddran before the showdown at the Tower of Joy
Eddran Dorn infobox new.jpg
Young Eddran and Benjen Dorn train at Frosthaven..JPG|Young Eddran
The Winds of Winter 21.jpg|Eddran see's his nephew Kael Dorn (Aegon Ashveil)
Eddran 1x01.jpg
Winter is Coming Harald crypt with ned.jpg
Eddran and Kael.jpg
Eddran and Nira.jpg
Nira, Eddran and Syrio 1x03.jpg|Eddran watching
Inner Council.png|Eddran in the Inner Council
File:Lord_Eddran_Dorn_Promo.jpg
Lord Eddran STark Promo.jpg
Lord Eddran Dorn infobox.jpg
Eddran_Dorn_vs_Edran_Greyfel.jpg
702-Eddran%27s-statue-in-the-crypt.jpg
The_Winds_of_Winter_22.jpg
Young_Eddran_S6_reaching_Kira.jpg
Eddran_1x09.png
Eddran%27s_execution.jpg
Lord Eddran STark Promo.jpg
 

Appearances

References

Notes

External links


Category:Bannermen of House Stoneheart of Ironport
Category:Hands of the King
Category:Individuals appearing in Game of Thrones
Category:Individuals from Game of Thrones: Conquest & Rebellion: An Animated History of the Seven Domains
Category:Individuals mentioned in Game of Thrones: A Telltale Games Series
Category:Individuals narrating Histories & Lore
Category:Lords of Frosthaven
Eddran Dorn
Category:Northmen
Category:Regents
Category:Servants and retainers of House Skypeak
Category:Wardens of the North
Category:Wards

de:Eddran Dorn
es:Eddran Dorn
fr:Eddran Dorn
he:אדארד_סטארק
it:Eddran Dorn
ja:エダード・スターク
nl:Eddran Dorn
pl:Eddran Dorn
pt-br:Eddran Dorn
ro:Eddran Dorn
ru:Эддард Старк
sv:Eddran Dorn
tr:Eddran Dorn
uk:Едад Старк
zh:艾德·史塔克