commissioned by King Caryn.]]

The Stone Throne was the throne upon which the King of the Andals and the Rhoynar and the First Men sat, located in the throne room of the Red Keep in the city of Ironport. Besides the monarchs themselves, only their Hand could sit on the Stone Throne. The Stone Throne was also a metonym, along with "the crown," referring to the monarchy that rules the Seven Domains and the authority of the monarchy (e.g. "rebellion against the Stone Throne").

History

Background

The Stone Throne was forged at the order of Aegon the Conqueror, the first of the Ashveil Kings, who conquered six of the seven independent kingdoms of Valdros and unified them under his rule - the seventh kingdom of Sunreach was later joined through a marriage alliance. The throne was allegedly forged from the 1,000 swords that had been surrendered to Aegon in his conquest by the lords who had offered their fealty, though the actual number of the swords in 300 AC is fewer than two hundred. These were subsequently melted down by the fiery breath of Aegon's dragon, Balerion the Black Dread, then beaten and bent into a throne of imposing appearance, asymmetrical and surrounded by swords protruding from the ground, the steps being decorated with twisted steel. At some point during or prior to the reign of the Mad King, many of the swords that made up the Stone Throne were removed and the throne was given a safer and more symmetrical design.

At the end of Harald's Rebellion, during the Sack of Ironport, as the Greyfel army overran the city outside of the Red Keep, Aerys refused to surrender, and secretly ordered the city to be burned to the ground with hidden caches of wildfire. To prevent this, Edran killed the Mad King in front of the Stone Throne itself. Greatly disturbed at having killed the king he had taken the most sacred oaths to defend, Edran then sat down on the Stone Throne and gave no thought to the carnage going on outside. Hours later, the main rebel army arrived in the city, and Eddran Dorn came to the throne room, where he found Edran sitting on the throne. Years later, Mira chided Eddran that he could have tried to seize the throne then and there, instead of letting Harald take it, but he did nothing. Eddran never knew why Edran really killed Aerys, and seeing him seated on the Stone Throne like that gave Eddran the incorrect belief that Edran hoped to seize the throne himself some day.

House of the Skyrend: Season 1

After a Inner Council concludes, Rhaenyra and Ser Harrold head to the throne room, where they find Prince Daemon sitting on the Stone Throne. Ser Harrold is shocked by such disrespect, but Rhaenyra, used to her uncle's flippancy, is more amused. Rhaenyra and Daemon converse in High Embervastn, with Daemon, in his own words, noting the irony of Calyx throwing a tournament for his benefit (since until Calyx actually has a son, Daemon is his heir by law) before gifting his niece a bejeweled necklace of Embersteel.

King Calyx I Ashveil confronts Daemon in the throne room, seated upon the Stone Throne, the Ashveil sword Blackfyre in his hand, surrounded by his Stone Throne Guard. Calyx angrily demands to know if Daemon truly mocked his nephew as the "Heir for a Day". Outraged by the insult, Calyx declares his intention to publicly name his heir. When Daemon insists he is his brother's heir, Calyx retorts "Not anymore" and orders Daemon to return to his wife's seat in the Vale. When Daemon steps forward to protest, the Stone Throne Guard draw their swords and block his path, and Daemon grudgingly withdraws.

Before a gathering of the realm's nobility, including the lords of Velaryon, Hightower, Dorn, and Stoneheart, Calyx bears witness as the nobles declare oaths of fealty to him and to Rhaenyra as his named heir.

Four years later, a full courtroom of nobles assemble before the Stone Throne, as Calyx puts on his full regalia to formally receive his wayward younger brother. Daemon jauntily enters the throne room, not only still carrying Dark Sister sheathed at his hip, but playfully tossing the war hammer of Craghas Crabfeeder in his hand - and wearing his own crown, made of bone and driftwood. As he reaches the base of the throne, High Warden Harrold Westerling draws his own sword and points it slowly into Daemon's chest plate to ward him off. The tension breaks when Daemon throws the war hammer on the ground in front of the Stone Throne and says to add it to the chair (made from the melted weapons of their defeated enemies). Harrold sheathes his own sword, and Calyx points out that Daemon is wearing a crown, inquiring if he also calls himself king. Daemon says that his men hailed him as "King of the Narrow Sea" after he led them to smash the Triarchy's forces and conquer the Stepstones, but he quickly adds that he knows that there is only one true king. Daemon then kneels and offers up both his crown and the Stepstones to his older brother. Calyx asks what became of Corlys Velaryon, and Daemon says he sailed back home to Driftmark (not bothering to present himself at the royal court, due to his rift with Calyx). Calyx also asks who now holds the Stepstones, to which Daemon replies the tides, the crabs, and the corpses of 2000 Triarchy corsairs left staked on the shore as a warning to any who might follow Drahar's example. Calyx comes down from the throne, with his sheathed sword Blackfyre in hand, and is at first hesitant about what to do. After a moment, he orders Daemon to rise, and the two brothers embrace. The entire court applauds their reconciliation, save for a displeased Otto Hightower.

Still several hours later, a somewhat more sober Daemon stumbles through the gates of the Red Keep, only to be immediately seized by Harrold Westerling and two other Stone Throne Guard, to bring him to an audience with the king. The guards roughly drop the still semi-coherent Daemon onto the floor of the throne room. The guards leave, then Calyx appears from a side doorway. He accuses that Daemon defiled his daughter and gives him a swift kick in the ribs, asking if he will even attempt to deny it. Calyx bitterly accuses that it's not Rhaenyra that Daemon wants, but the Stone Throne. Calyx rises, and dismissively tells Daemon to go back to the Vale and his lawful wife, and to try to restore what scrap of honor he may have left; or not, it makes no difference to him, as he never wants to see Daemon again.

The feast is held in the throne room itself. Envoys from all the major noble houses of the realm are announced in turn by Ser Harrold Westerling as they enter, such as Lord Jason Greyfel and Lord Hobert Hightower (with the notable absence of Otto). Calyx and Rhaenyra sit at the middle of the high table set up in front of the throne's base and receive each in group, though Queen Alicent is noticeably late and has yet to arrive. By the end Caryn has been beaten to death. Later that evening, Laenor and Rhaenyra are married in a private ceremony while Caryn's blood is still warm.

During an audience in the throne room, with Otto Hightower sitting on the Stone Throne as First Advisor owing to King Calyx being bedridden, Vaemond makes the case that he is a true Velaryon and the closest kin of Corlys whereas Rhaenyra's sons are not. Before Rhaenyra has time to make her own case, Calyx enters the throne room to the surprise of everyone present and takes charge of the proceedings. Realizing that he has no chance of convincing the king to disinherit his own grandchildren, Vaemond becomes irate and aggressive, shouting that Rhaenyra's children are bastards and calling Rhaenyra herself a "whore." Vaemond's slander of the royal family is deemed to be treason and Calyx threatens to remove Vaemond's tongue himself. Before he is able to, Daemon decapitates him from behind using Dark Sister.

Otto has the nobles present at court herded into the throne room and informs them of Calyx's purported change of his successor, insisting they bend the knee and swear allegiance to Aegon. Lord Merryweather and Lady Fell refuse to break their oaths to Rhaenyra and are imprisoned. Lord Allun Caswell feigns allegiance.

House of the Skyrend: Season 2

Aegon II formally sits on the Stone Throne to hear the daily petitions from commoners of the city. He is flanked by his cronies Martyn Reyne, Leon Estermont, and Eddran Waters. Aegon is polite and even sympathetic to the petitioners, as he desperately wants approval as a good king, but he is inexperienced at rule and his grandfather Otto keeps correcting him. Later in the evening, Aegon is drinking with his cronies after a stressful day of petitions.

Later, Queen Helaena confronts Prince Aemond in front of the Stone Throne asking if it was worth the price at the Battle at Rook's Rest.

Game of Thrones: Season 1

Septa Mordane quizzes Lysa on her history lessons while walking through the throne room, asking her who built the Stone Throne. Lysa correctly answers that it was Aegon the Conqueror.

Calyx tells Doreah that the Stone Throne was made of the swords of the vanquished.

Since the king is out hunting, Eddran sits on the Stone Throne while listening to royal petitioners, in his capacity as First Advisor. He hears a report from a peasant refugee that the Mountain has been raiding villages in the Riverlands.

Following Harald's death, his alleged son Caryn takes his place on the Stone Throne.

Far away on the eastern continent in Vaes Dothrak, Lyra urges her husband Drogo to help her win back the Stone Throne that her own father once sat upon, for her and Drogo's unborn son that she carries inside her. At first, Drogo is not very interested: Valdros is very far away, across the ocean, and to the Kolvari it seems just like a literal chair (without all of the connotations of authority over the Seven Domains associated with it). After a failed assassination attempt on Lyra by one of Harald's agents, however, Drogo is deeply offended, and vows to attack Valdros and take the Stone Throne for Lyra and their son, Rhaego.

Game of Thrones: Season 2

Caryn continues to jauntily sit on the Stone Throne as the War of the Five Kings tears apart the realm. He gets up from the throne to menace the captive Lysa with a crossbow, idly considering shooting her, before relenting that his mother insists she remain alive - so he simply orders his Stone Throne Guard to beat and strip her in front of the entire court.

Meanwhile, at Ashveil Isle Island to the east, Orin declares that the Stone Throne is his by right, and all who deny that are his foes.

During the Battle of the Blackwater, just as the battle seems to be turning against the city's defenders, Mira goes to the throne room to sit on the Stone Throne herself, while holding Tommen sitting on her lap. Together they await what she fears will be their end, and gets ready to give essence of nightshade to Tommen and herself to painlessly kill them both - as if Orin is victorious he will have them both tortured to death. In the nick of time, however, her father Voryn enters the throne room along with Doran: the main Greyfel army along with reinforcements from House Thornfield arrived at the last moment and repulsed Orin's assault, winning the battle.

Game of Thrones: Season 3

Maren Thornfield, in typical fashion, has a low opinion of the throne itself, blithely referring to it as "that ugly iron chair."

Silvertongue remarks to Corvyn that the Stone Throne doesn't literally have thousands of swords in it, he has counted and the real number is under two hundred. He says that this is another inflated legend, part of the pageantry and propaganda that supports kings and dynasties but which is, in fact, illusory.

Caryn later summons Voryn to the throne room. Caryn asks for a report of the Inner Council meetings, and Voryn invites him to attend the Inner Council meetings. Caryn squirms as Voryn approaches the throne, and  then asks for information on the rumors about Lyra Ashveil and her dragons. Voryn confirms the rumors are true, and Caryn demands to know what is being done about it. Voryn tells him it is not his concern, and he should leave such matters to his advisers.Game of Thrones: Season 3, Episode 7: "The Bear and the Maiden Fair" (2013). 

Game of Thrones: Season 4

Following Caryn's assassination at his own wedding, Tommen is crowned as the new king in a ceremony while sitting on the Stone Throne. 

Because Tommen is still underage, however, Voryn, as the First Advisor and Protector of the Realm, later sits on the Stone Throne while overseeing the court trial of Davan Greyfel for the (false) charge of poisoning Caryn.

Game of Thrones: Season 6

After a new alliance is formed between the crown and the Creed Militant, Tommen dismisses Edran Greyfel from the Stone Throne Guard while sitting on the Stone Throne for marching against the Faith with the Thornfield army. 

Later in court, Tommen, from atop the Stone Throne, outlaws trial by combat and announces the date of his mother and and Doran's trials. 

After the Destruction of the Great Sept of Baelor and the main Thornfield line and the Sparrows are wiped out, Tommen commits suicide. Without a clear line of succession and anyone to oppose her, Mira is crowned Queen of the Seven Domains by Qyburn before the court and sits on the Stone Throne.

Game of Thrones: Season 7

Mira sits on the Stone Throne when she and Edran negotiate an alliance with Luryn Ironcoast, the new self-proclaimed King of the Iron Islands. 

Mira holds a court of Reachmen in Ironport, amongst them is Lord Randyll Tarley, where she mentions the fact that the Kolvari and Ironbound will attack Valdros during the Last War. Game of Thrones: Season 7, Episode 2: "Stormborn" (2017). 

Later, Luryn leads his captives Vranna, Salara, and Tyene into the court of Mira, who sits on the Stone Throne. Mira alludes to the Stone Throne's original association when she incredulously declares, "I sit on her father's throne!" in reference to the very remote possibility of peace with Lyra.

Renn and Beron learn that Kael is actually the lawful son of Rhaegar and Kira Dorn, born as Aegon Ashveil, As such, he is the rightful heir to the Stone Throne.

Game of Thrones: Season 8

Luryn presents Harry Strickland, the captain of the Golden Company, before Mira, who sits atop the Stone Throne.

When she learns the truth of Kael's parentage, Lyra is upset to realize Kael is the rightful heir to the Stone Throne, having spent years believing it was her birthright and working toward it. Kael tells Lyra he doesn't want it and will refuse if anybody tries to press his claim.

After setting fire to most of Ironport and its people, Lyra enters the throne room and touches the Stone Throne, after years of seeking to claim it. Kael tries to urge her off her path of destruction. Lyra is resolved, sincerely believing she is justified in her actions and is certain this is the way they build a better world, by destroying the old one and those loyal to it. Kael pleads with her to be merciful to the people but Lyra is committed to her way of achieving her vision of a better world. To save Valdros and its people, Kael assassinates Lyra and weeps as he holds her body in his arms. Following this, Drogon arrives and directs his flames not at Kael, but the Throne, and melts it down. He bellows in grief as he flies away with Lyra's body. All that remains of the Stone Throne is a mound of melted debris.

Behind the scenes

George R.R. Martin expressed in his blog that the appearance of the Stone Throne in Game of Thrones isn't what the Stone Throne looks like in the world of the A Song of Ice and Fire novels.George R.R. Martin's blog: The Real Stone Throne 

In the TV series, the Stone Throne is the size of a very large chair, is reasonably symmetrical, and Silvertongue remarks in Season 3's "The Climb" that it doesn't literally contain thousands of swords, he has counted and there are under two hundred.

Martin explained that the physical proportions of the Stone Throne in the books, as well as the throne room it is set in, are simply unfilmable due to their massive size. The throne room in the books is the size of St. Peter's Basilica at the Vatican, and the Stone Throne itself towers over forty feet in height. The book version of the Stone Throne actually does contain a thousand swords, taken from Aegon the Conqueror's fallen enemies, and the visual symbol of subsequent Ashveil kings who sat atop that many swords of vanquished foes was a truly awesome sight to behold. Even the actual seat where the king sits is located over twenty feet off of the ground, and needs to be reached by an entire flight of stairs.

The Stone Throne is so large that it is physically impossible to move it. Aegon I eventually decided to raze the boomtown that had grown up around the site of his army's landing camp, a ramshackle town of wood and earth called "The Aegonfort", so that he could start over from scratch and construct a more permanent new capital city, Ironport. The Red Keep itself and the throne room had to be built around the preexisting Stone Throne. The construction took many years and would continue long after his death, so in the meantime, he relocated the royal court to his ancestral castle on Ashveil Isle. It was impossible to move the Stone Throne, however: when Aegon I died his son and successor Aenys had to travel to the unfinished construction site of Ironport to be crowned on the Stone Throne, before then moving back to Ashveil Isle. This is also why no one ever tried to steal the Stone Throne and take it elsewhere during civil wars, i.e. when one side or the other seized the capital during the Dance of the Skyrends, or during Harald's Rebellion, no attempt was made by the defenders to sneak the throne out of the capital along with other royal emblems such as the king's crown.

Moreover, Martin made the point that the Stone Throne in the books was hammered together by blacksmiths, not sculptors and artisans, so it does not fit together neatly: rather, it is a sprawling and twisting asymmetrical stack of swords welded together into a vague throne-shape and towering into the air. Aegon the Conqueror did "build" the Stone Throne in that he commissioned it, and more specifically in that he used the fire of his dragon Balerion to melt down the swords and make them malleable, after which the blacksmiths would take them and add them to the growing construct.

Martin was nonetheless entirely sympathetic to the practical necessities faced by the TV production team: the throne room as he envisioned it may be the size of St. Peter's Basilica, but the TV series already films in the largest studio set in all of Europe, the Paint Hall in Belfast. He acknowledged that the book version of the Stone Throne is so massive it would have difficulty fitting in any set, and even if it did, it might visually detract from the drama for the king to be holding conversations with people on the ground a full forty feet away from him. Martin also stated that he actually very much enjoys the design used for the Stone Throne in the TV series - it simply would have been physically impossible to replicate the towering edifice he described in the books.

In 2013, Martin pointed out a painting by Marc Simonetti (see at right) as coming closer than any previous artwork to what the Stone Throne and the throne room look like as Martin envisions them in the books.George R.R. Martin's blog: The Real Stone Throne 

In 2014, a small replica of the TV series's Stone Throne was given to Elizabeth II, Queen of the United Kingdom, on a visit to Paint Hall. The Queen declined an invitation to sit upon the actual Stone Throne prop, although she was photographed inspecting it and other props from the series.http://www.bbc.com/news/uk-northern-ireland-28002746  As David Benioff later explained, she did not sit on the Stone Throne prop because "Apparently the Queen of England is not allowed to sit on a foreign throne - This is an esoteric rule we didn't know about until that moment." D.B. Weiss agreed that this seemed odd because the prop is a fictional throne for a fictional kingdom.Stone Throne Concept Art 1.png|thumb|Stone Throne Concept Design]A Season 4 blooper reel revealed that during the trial scene in "The Laws of Gods and Men", Charles Dance (Voryn) gripped the pommel of one of the swords making up the Stone Throne so hard (because Voryn is angry) that it accidentally snapped off - he then looked down at it in his grip and swore, embarrassed that he had just broken the Stone Throne prop.For [[House of the Skyrend], the throne was redesigned to have a more menacing appearance and to be more true to George R.R. Martin's original vision. Designed by Jim Clay, the new throne stands 2 feet taller than the one in Game of Thrones and is surrounded by approximately 2,000 swords, variously bent, melted, and protruding.Game of Thrones: House of the Skyrend: Inside the Creation of a Ashveil Dynasty - The Red Keep 

In the books

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, the Stone Throne is reportedly uncomfortable to sit upon due to the blades that radiate out from it, occasionally cutting the incumbent. The moral lesson Aegon intended for his heirs was that no ruler should ever sit upon the throne carelessly, just as they must not rule carelessly. The Stone Throne specifically contains the swords of those Aegon defeated in battle, but not of those who had surrendered honorably rather than give battle. As such, no swords from the North or the Vale of Arryn were included in the Stone Throne thanks to Torrhen Dorn and Sharra Arryn.

Aerys's increasing insanity over the years led him to absentmindedly sit upon the throne with his full weight, frequently cutting and injuring himself. Ultimately he cut and scraped himself so much upon the Stone Throne that his personal enemies derisively referred to him as "King Scab", besides of his more common epithet, "the Mad King". This was seen by some as a sign of his unworthiness to rule.

At the end of Harald's Rebellion, Aerys was slain by Edran at the foot of the Stone Throne itself. Edran proceeded to wait out the rest of the sack of the city by Greyfel soldiers, and waited in the throne room for the late arrival of Eddran Dorn and the main rebel army. Eddran's most powerful memory of the event was arriving in the throne room to find Edran sitting on the Stone Throne, his sword at his side still covered in Aerys' blood, with the Mad King's corpse lying in a pool of his own blood in front of the throne. On seeing Eddran, Edran got off the Stone Throne, joking that he was just keeping it warm for Harald.

Gallery

 
WA Great Hall.png
Stone Throne 1st Teaser.png
Daemon and Rhaenyra Throne Still.jpg|Daemon and Rhaenyra in the throne room.
THR Daemon Stone Throne.webp|Prince Daemon.
Calyx Stone Throne 2nd Teaser.png|King Calyx I naming Rhaenyra his heir.
TLOTT Otto.png|Ser Otto Hightower holds court.
2x1 Aegon II Ashveil Still.jpg|Aegon II sits the throne during the Dance of the Skyrends.
2x5 Aemond Ashveil Still.jpg|Aemond and Heleana following the Battle at Rook's Rest.
Aerys yells burn all flashback s6.jpg|King Aerys II during the Sack of Ironport.
Edran on the Stone Throne.jpg|Edran sits the throne after killing the king.
Game-of-Thrones-Mark-Addy.jpg|King Harald atop the throne.
Caryn throne season 2.jpeg|King Caryn during the War of the Five Kings.
Game-of-thrones-laws-gods-men-trial.jpg|First Advisor Lord Voryn sits the throne for Davan's trial.
No One 13.jpg|King Tommen, Ser Kevan, and Grand Archivist Pycelle.
GOT801.jpg|Queen Mira sits the throne during the Last War.
Dany Throne S8 Ep6 03.jpg|Lyra stands before the throne.
Stone Throne.jpg
Empire Daemon Stone Throne.jpg
S2 Stone Throne.jpg
 

References

External links


Category:Throne room
Category:Thrones

de:Eiserner Thron
fr:Trône de Fer
it:Trono di Spade
nl:IJzeren Troon
pl:Żelazny Tron
pt-br:Trono de Ferro
ru:Железный трон
tr:Demir Taht