{{Character


Ser Edran Greyfel was the elder son of Lord Voryn Greyfel, younger twin brother of Queen Mira, and older brother of Davan. He was involved in an incestuous relationship with Mira, and unknown to most, he was the biological father of her three bastard children, Caryn, Myrcella, and Tommen, as well as her unborn child.

During Harald's Rebellion, Edran killed Aerys Ashveil, earning the derogatory nickname "Kingslayer." He was pardoned by Harald and allowed to serve in his Stone Throne Guard. Following Harald's death, he was appointed as the High Warden of the Stone Throne Guard to his son, Caryn. 

During the War of the Five Kings, Edran fought for his house, but was captured by Aldric Dorn and kept prisoner. He came to an agreement with Sera, who decided to release him on condition that her daughters would be safely returned to her. Edran was paired with Briana, whom Sera tasked to have him brought back to the capital. During their travel, Edran lost his right hand, and revealed the actual reasons why he murdered Aerys. Upon his return to the capital, he continued to serve as High Warden to Caryn, and then to Tommen, but was dismissed from his position after a tense confrontation with the Creed Militant. He became the new Commander of the Greyfel forces, but left his position in order to help the North face the Army of the Dead. After the dead were defeated, he was horrified at the fate his sister would await back in the capital, so he went back to help her. 

Edran died during the Battle of Ironport, in an attempt to get Mira out of the capital.

Biography

Background

Edran was the eldest son of Joanna Greyfel and Lord Voryn Greyfel. Edran had great difficulty learning to read as a child because he transposed letters in his mind. Voryn sat with him through four hours a day practicing until he learned. Edran resented being forced to spend so much time on reading.

Edran was the older brother of Davan and the twin brother of Mira. Their mother died giving birth to Davan. Due to his place in the Stone Throne Guard, Edran could not inherit his father's lands or titles, making Davan his father's heir; a fact which vexes Voryn. Unlike Mira and Voryn, Edran always treated Davan with love, kindness and respect.

Edran began an incestuous relationship with his twin Mira in his youth. At the age of 16, Edran rose to the rank of knighthood. At the behest of Mira, he consented to join the Stone Throne Guard, which would prevent his father's plans for him to marry Lysa Tully from coming into effect. Although initially hesitant (due the fact that Voryn was unable to accept Davan as his heir should Edran be inducted), Edran agreed, as Mira's betrothal to Rhaegar would allow the two of them to be in Ironport together. However, Voryn erupted in fury and resigned his position as First Advisor, taking Mira back to Greyfel Hold with him. Edran was sworn into the Stone Throne Guard by the Mad King, Aerys II Ashveil during the Great Tourney at Harenvast. He was then the youngest man ever appointed to its membership.

At the conclusion of Harald's Rebellion, Edran's father Voryn arrived at the gates of Ironport with the main Greyfel army, pledging his allegiance. Most of the small council urged Aerys not to trust Voryn, especially Edran, knowing his father would never support the losing side of a war. Instead, Pycelle gave the opposite counsel, and once the Greyfel army was allowed inside, Voryn ordered his men to attack the city. As Greyfel soldiers raped and pillaged throughout the city during the Sack of Ironport, King Aerys remained holed up inside the Red Keep, for hours maniacally repeating the order to "burn them all."

Despite being sworn by the holiest oaths to protect the king as a member of the Stone Throne Guard, Edran ultimately turned his own sword on Aerys, slaying him at the foot of the Stone Throne itself. For this infamous act, he is known throughout the Seven Domains as the "Kingslayer", to his irritation.

Edran always refused to discuss precisely what happened the day he slew the Mad King, and thus his true motivations – and what plans Aerys had for Ironport – were never revealed. On one occasion he confides the truth to Briana: Aerys's final orders were for Edran to kill his father, and to burn the entire city and its inhabitants with wildfire. Unwilling to let that happen, Edran killed him, and in doing so actually saved thousands of innocent lives. He adds that the "honorable" Eddran Dorn judged him guilty on the spot, without giving Edran a chance to explain.

He was forgiven for breaking his vows by King Harald Stoneheart and permitted to remain in the Stone Throne Guard as part of Harald's alliance with House Greyfel, along with the marriage of Edran's twin sister Mira to Harald. In addition to the slaying of the Mad King, Edran was known for his handsome looks, arrogant demeanor, and his superior and incredible fighting skills, and for his superb martial skills.HBO viewers guide, season 2 guide to houses, House Stoneheart of Ironport - Edran Greyfel entry  He was so skilled and great with a sword, that he bragged there were only three men in the Seven Domains who might have had a chance against him.

Game of Thrones: Season 1 

In Ironport, Edran counsels Mira over fears that Kael Arryn may have discovered their secret prior to his death. Edran argues that even if he knew, Arryn did not inform the king, for if he had, they would already be dead. If Arryn knew, his knowledge died with him. He accompanies Harald to Frosthaven where the king plans to ask Eddran Dorn to replace Kael Arryn as First Advisor. After their arrival, Mira sends Edran to find Davan. Edran tracks Davan to a brothel, tells him that he is needed at the feast that night and brings him several whores to speed his exit.

At the evening feast, Edran blocks Eddran's path and asks if there will be a possibility of their competing against each other at a tournament. Eddran dismissively says no, as he doesn't play at fighting, and doesn't show off his skills to let opponents know his abilities. The next day, Eddran and Harald go hunting, leaving the castle largely empty. Mira and Edran liaise in a derelict tower. Renn climbs the tower, looks through a window and finds them engaged in sexual intercourse. He is caught watching by Mira, at that point Edran is able to make it to the window to grab him. Renn is startled by everything he's seen, Edran looks out the window and only sees Renn's direwolf pup Summer. He asks Renn how old he is, and he replies, "Ten." Edran glances momentarily back at Mira and says, "The things I do for love", and pushes Renn out of the window.

Several days later at breakfast, Davan tells his family that Renn is expected to live and notes his siblings' guarded reactions to the news. Davan informs them of his decision to journey north to see the Wall before returning to Ironport. Edran states that it would be kinder to let him die, due to Renn's paraplegia, but Davan states he would prefer to live in any case. Edran then hints that it would be in House Greyfel's best interests if Renn were to die.

Just before departing Frosthaven, Edran talks to Kael in the courtyard. Ostensibly, he thanks Kael for his service joining the Night Watch, but in reality he is mocking him, as those from the south see it as waste of time (ironically, Edran's Stone Throne Guard vows are also for life and prevent him from marrying, but he still gets to live in the capital city and not exiled to the frozen gloom of the Wall). The parties depart Frosthaven. Edran is with the group traveling south to Ironport.

The royal party reaches Ironport. Eddran barely has time to get off his horse before he is asked to attend a meeting of the king's small council. Edran awaits him in the throne room. Edran is unhappy with Eddran judging him for killing the Mad King, the murderer of Eddran's father and brother, but Eddran is unapologetic. He says it wasn't justice that drove Edran to kill Aerys, and that Edran served Aerys loyally when serving was the easier thing to do. A raven arrives at Ironport with news of Renn's recovery. In the capital, Mira fears he will expose their secret, but Edran comforts her.

Elsewhere, Harald swaps old war stories with Ser Barristan Selmy, a distinguished and famous knight and commander of the Stone Throne Guard. Edran is called in to join them. He tells them that the first man he killed was an outlaw from the Kingswood Brotherhood, and, as he took off the man's head, there were no last words. Disappointed in not being able to mock him, Harald realizes that he never asked Edran what Aerys's last words were, then taunts Edran for killing a defenseless old man he had sworn to protect. Edran tersely responds that the last thing the Mad King said was the same thing he'd been raving for hours, since the sack of the capital by the rebels began: "Burn them all!" This silences Harald's levity.

Edran guards the king's bedroom while Harald cavorts with several women, Edran taking it as a calculated insult to himself and his sister. He reminisces with Jory Cassel, the captain of Eddran's household guards, about the Siege of Pyke during the Ironcoast Rebellion and the fierceness of the fighting. Jory tries to leave Eddran's message with Edran, but is rebuffed, as Edran angrily states that he does not serve Lord Dorn.

Upon hearing of his brother's capture by Sera, he confronts Eddran in the streets of Ironport. Knowing that killing Eddran will result in Davan's death, he instead has Eddran's guards killed, stabbing Jory through the eye himself. He and Eddran fiercely cross swords in an intense duel, and Edran is surprised that Eddran is a match for him. After minutes of dueling, and neither opponent gaining ground on the other, the fight ends abruptly and prematurely when a Greyfel guardsmen stabs Eddran through the leg. An irritated Edran knocks out the guardsman and then departs the city, telling Eddran that he wants his brother back.

Edran joins the army of his father in the field. Voryn laments Edran's pride and how he spends so much effort trying to convince others he doesn't care what they think of him. Voryn is incredulous and disgusted that Edran would let Eddran live and go free because his victory was not "clean." He says that if other houses think they can take a Greyfel hostage and not suffer for it they will lose respect for the Greyfel name. Voryn says that Edran must accept responsibility for the future destiny of their house, which will be decided by this war against the Tullys and Dorns. They will either die out like the Ashveils or begin a dynasty that will last 1,000 years. He gives Edran thirty-thousand men and sends him to besiege Riverrun. In Ironport, Eddran tells Mira that he knows that Edran is the true father of Mira's three children. She admits it, saying they have loved one another from the womb and are destined to be together always.

Some weeks later, Kevan, Edran's uncle, tells Davan that Edran has won several significant battles, smashing a host of the river lords at the Golden Tooth and currently laying siege to Riverrun. Aldric Dorn marches two thousand men towards Voryn's forces in order to create a distraction. The remaining force feints outside Riverrun, drawing out Edran and a small number of troops to deal with what appears to be a small scouting party, and Edran is taken prisoner in the resulting Battle of Whispering Wood. Edran offers to fight Aldric in single combat to decide the war, but Aldric knows that Edran is better at swordplay than he is and says they aren't going to do it his way. Aldric initially intends to use Edran as a bargaining chip for his father's and sisters' lives. However, Eddran is executed in Ironport before news of Edran's capture can reach the capital.

Sera visits the captive Edran. He taunts Sera, saying widowhood suits her, informing her that he would have sex with her if she was lonely. She hits him in the head with a rock. Edran knows that the Dorns won't kill him as long as his sister holds Lysa and Nira hostage, but Edran always taunts others while he is in chains to show them he doesn't fear them and they aren't superior to him. She says he has gone against the laws of gods and man, he says, "What Gods?" Where were her gods when her husband was killed. When she says injustice in the world is because of men like him, he tells her, "There are no men like me. Only me." When asked directly, he admits pushing Renn from the tower, but doesn't reveal why.

Game of Thrones: Season 2

Edran remains a captive of House Dorn. Aldric keeps Edran caged and chained to a post in his camp at all times to prevent Voryn bribing or threatening one of his bannermen into giving him up. Edran remains defiant, taunting and insulting Aldric when he comes to confront him. Orin has made Caryn's parentage public, by sending letters to all the lords throughout the kingdom, exposing Edran's incest with Mira. Edran counters that Orin has a personal stake in these accusations, as if all of Mira's children are Edran's bastards that means Orin is heir to the throne. However it is Edran who is intimidated when Aldric threatens him with the snarling Grey Wind.

Months later, Edran is joined in his cell by his distant cousin Alton. They talk about the time Alton served as Edran's squire at a tourney, and Edran tells him about his own experiences as squire of Barristan Selmy. Drawing Alton closer, Edran seizes the opportunity to escape. When he leans over to hear Edran whisper about an escape plan, Edran head butts him then strikes him in the head repeatedly cracking his skull. When the guard (Torrhen Karstark) is distracted by discovering Alton's body bloody and convulsing, Edran strangles him to death and takes his keys to free himself from his chains.

Edran is soon recaptured. Rickard Karstark demands Edran's head for killing his son. Sera convinces Rickard to wait until Aldric returns but fears that his patience will not hold. Sera visits Edran's cell with her female guard Briana. She accuses Edran of being a man without honor because of his broken vows. Edran explains his view that his vows frequently conflicted with one another. He asserts that he has more honor than some; he reveals that Mira is the only one he has slept with and reminds Sera how her husband cheated on her and fathered Kael Dorn.

Sera makes a deal with Edran and releases him. She tasks Briana with escorting him to Ironport to exchange him for her captive daughters. Briana successfully smuggles him out of the camp on horseback and then they travel by rowboat to evade pursuit. Edran needles her about her appearance and masculinity, unsuccessfully attempting to goad her into dueling him.

He changes subject, focusing on her virginity and childhood. They find a trio of women, hanged for sleeping with Greyfel soldiers. He mocks her service to House Dorn and she asserts that she serves Sera specifically. As Briana goes to bury the bodies they are accosted by a trio of Dorn soldiers. Briana kills all three after they recognize Edran, and he is impressed by her skill. He questions her readiness to kill Dorn men and she reasserts her dedication to Sera and the task she set her.

Game of Thrones: Season 3

Edran continues to be escorted by Briana to Ironport. On their way there, they are spotted by a traveler. Edran urges Briana to kill the traveler, since he believes the man recognized him and will give away their whereabouts, but she refuses.

Later, the pair have to cross a river, which means they can either attempt a dangerous fording or take the bridge, which will probably be watched. Briana takes the safer route of the bridge, but Edran manages to distract her long enough to take away her spare sword and cut his bonds. Briana and Edran enter into an extended sword fight on the bridge. Edran, one of the most skilled swordsmen in all of Valdros, nearly overcomes Briana several times.

However, Edran's mobility is reduced because his hands are still manacled, and he is malnourished after having spent the past full year chained up in a cell. Edran begins to tire, and Briana wears him down further by making simple body-blows with kicks and punches. After a protracted fight Edran finally slumps to the ground in exhaustion. Just then, riders from House Craven arrive led by a man named Locke. Edran asks if they want to negotiate, but Locke says they'll have his head if he doesn't bring the Kingslayer back to the King in the North, so there's not much Edran can do to dissuade him from taking them prisoner.

Along with Briana, he is taken captive by Locke and his men. As they ride along, the men sing a rousing chorus of "The Bear and the Maiden Fair." Tied up back to back on one of the horses, Edran warns Briana that when they make camp for the night, they will rape her, more than once, and that his honest advice is to give no resistance, and just think of Garren. They were only sent to capture Edran, therefore Briana means nothing to them, so at the slightest provocation they will kill her without hesitation. Briana says she will fight even if they kill her, and Edran agrees that if he were a woman, he would fight to the death before being raped too.

Later that night Locke's men make camp, and do indeed drag Briana kicking and screaming into the bushes to gang-rape her. Edran is disgusted by this pointless brutality, so he points out to Locke that Briana is actually a noblewoman and the sole heir of Lord Selwyn Tarth, the "Sapphire Isle", and her father will pay them a ransom of her weight in sapphires - provided that she is unharmed. Locke agrees and calls his men back before they are able to rape Briana, and they tie her up to a tree again. Edran then tries to smooth-talk Locke once again with offers of how his father Voryn will make him extravagantly rich if he lets Edran go.

Tiring of Edran's arrogance and frequent attempts to bribe him into turning over to the Greyfel side, Locke decides to prove that Edran's father will never deal with the likes of him. At first, Locke has his men untie Edran on the pretext of letting him go after feeding him. But then his men hold Edran down on a tree stump serving as a chopping block while Locke grabs a carving knife; his reasoning being that maiming Voryn's son will be the ultimate proof that the Greyfels would never deal with Locke, much less bribe him.

Locke mocks Edran about always relying on his daddy Voryn and that his daddy isn't here. Locke says that Edran's father can't help him now, and "this should help you remember!" - as he swings down the carving knife and hacks off Edran's sword-hand. For half a second, Edran stares at his severed right hand in shock, before what just happened can register in his mind, then he screams in horror.

The following day, Locke's men lead their prisoners Edran and Briana horseback. Edran's severed right hand is tied onto a cord that hangs around his neck. Edran is physically in agony from his wound, feverish and half-delirious. Barely conscious, he falls headlong off of his horse into the mud. Laying in the mud Edran is mocked and tormented by Locke and his men, giving him horse urine to drink. However Edran manages to steal a sword, and unsuccessfully tries to fight them off using only his left hand. Edran is so weak and feverish that he can barely stand, much less wield a sword and must therefore quickly give up trying. His only hope is that one of the men would give him a small dignified death having a sword in his hand. He eventually succumbs to exhaustion and Locke simply warns him that if he tries that again he'll cut off his other hand.

Later that night Edran and Briana are restrained near a campfire. Edran refuses to eat, and says he wants to die. Briana says he should try to live for revenge, but Edran says he was that hand, and without his sword-hand, even if he escapes, he is nothing, and would rather die as the Edran he was than go on living, robbed of his very identity. Briana says she overheard when he earlier managed to talk Locke out of letting his men gang-rape her. Briana is confused, and asks Edran why he helped her, but he doesn't answer. Briana grows angry, claiming that this is the first time Edran had to face the real world where things people care about get taken away. And that he's pathetically moping around like a woman. Her criticism and strength convinces Edran to start eating.

The party eventually arrives at Harenvast, where Aldric Craven is visibly angered at Locke for maiming Edran. Edran asks Craven about Mira, and Craven briefly tortures him emotionally, describing Orin Stoneheart's attack on Ironport in a way that seems as if he will say Mira was killed, but he informs him that Voryn and the Thornfield army arrived to drive Orin away, and Mira is alive and well. Edran is so relieved that he falls to his knees. His stump is later tended to by Qyburn, an ex-maester who was expelled from the Order for his unethical but successful experiments. Qyburn implies that he may need to cut off Edran's arm to stop the corruption spreading, but Edran threatens to kill him if he does, so Qyburn agrees to only cut away the rotting flesh, and offers Edran milk of the poppy to ease the pain, but Edran, fearing that Qyburn will sedate him and still amputate his arm, refuses, and screams in agony as Qyburn starts operating on him.

While Briana is bathing alone in baths of Harenvast, Edran approaches and slips into the opposite corner. He makes a snide remark about Briana unable to protect Garren and for being the reason he died. She stands defiantly, and he quickly apologizes, claiming that Briana has protected him better than most. Edran begins to open up to Briana, and tells his side of what happened the day he slew the Mad King. He reveals to a shocked Briana the truth of that day, something he has never told anyone else: Aerys's final orders were for Edran to kill his father, and to burn the entire city and its inhabitants with wildfire.

Unwilling to let that happen, Edran killed him, and in doing so actually saved thousands of innocent lives before Eddran Dorn entered the throne room and saw the aftermath. Briana asks Edran why he never told anyone if all of this is true. Edran replies that Eddran Dorn judged him guilty the moment he laid eyes on him, and he vents, "By what right does the wolf judge the lion?" He begins to pass out and collapses in Briana's arms. She calls for the guards to help the Kingslayer, but he corrects her and says his name is Edran.

While sitting at the dinner table with Briana and Aldric, Edran clumsily tries to cut his meat with one hand until an annoyed Briana helps him. Aldric tells Edran that wars cost money and that many people would pay a great deal of money for him. After discussing how busy Voryn is battling Aldric all over the North, Edran informs Aldric that his father would make time for him. Aldric tells Edran, that when he is well enough to travel, he will allow him to return to Ironport on the condition that he will tell Voryn the truth, that he had nothing to do with his maiming.

Aldric does not allow Briana to join Edran however. Edran protests and insists that she must go with him, but Aldric claims that she must stay because she is charged with abetting treason. Before Aldric heads off to the Twins, Edran jokingly tells him to send his regards to Aldric, a task that Aldric actually does carry out right before killing the Young Wolf.

Edran arrives in Briana's chambers to tell her goodbye before he leaves for Ironport. He informs her that Aldric Craven has demanded she stay behind with Locke. He tells Briana that he owes her a debt. Briana tells Edran that if he keeps his word to Sera the debt will be paid. Edran promises that he will return the Dorn girls to their mother.

Along their travel back to the Capital, the group stops for Qyburn to medicate Edran's healing stump. Edran notes that Qyburn's work is more effective than Grand Archivist Pycelle and asks why he was expelled from the Order of Archivists. Qyburn tells him that it was because his experiments were "too bold." When Edran mocks him, Qyburn subtly bashes him for all the lives he has taken while in the Stone Throne Guard. Qyburn informs Edran that Selwyn Tarth offered 300 gold dragons for Briana's return, but Locke refused; believing that Lord Selwyn has all the sapphire mines in Valdros. Locke, feeling cheated, would make Briana the men's entertainment for the night. Edran senses a feeling of obligation to Briana, knowing it is his fault for Locke believing there is a fortune in sapphires in Tarth. He approaches Steelshanks and tells him they are to return to Harenvast. Edran threatens that he will tell his father upon arrival in Kings Landing, that Steelshanks chopped his hand off. Or, he says he could tell his father that Steelshanks saved his life.

Steelshanks relents and escorts Edran back to Harenvast, where he finds Briana being forced to fight a bear in a gladiatorial pit, using only a wooden sword. Edran dives into the pit to aid her, forcing Steelshanks to aid them both by firing arrows at the bear. Edran and Briana narrowly escape the bear, and he once again demands that she accompanies him, asking Locke whether he believes Craven would prefer to reward him or to ensure that Edran reaches Ironport. This time, Locke relents, and Edran and Briana depart together.

Edran walks into the gates of Ironport with Briana and Qyburn. A worker pulling a cart orders that he move out of the way, calling him a "Country Boy." Edran immediately returns to Mira back at the Red Keep. He steps into her room and notices her admiring a seashell fondly. He says her name and as she turns, he notices she is taken aback by his stump.

Game of Thrones: Season 4

Edran is offered a sword by his father Voryn which is made of Embersteel from the recently reforged Ice, the Dorns' ancestral sword. Edran comments that House Greyfel has always wanted its own Embervastn blade and Voryn answers that they now have two. The original was absurdly large and had plenty of steel for two swords. He then reveals to Edran his plan to have him removed from the Stone Throne Guard so that he can return to Greyfel Hold and rule as Lord in his stead. However, Edran tells him that he has no plans of resigning and that he will remain in Ironport to protect the King (and secretly continue his incestuous relationship with Mira). He also rejects that this is about his honor, as he believes that his honor is too far gone so he might as well do what he wants rather than what is expected of him. Voryn agrees to let him do so, but tells him that he no longer considers him a Greyfel. Despite this, Voryn allows Edran to keep the sword, saying that a 'one-armed man with no family needs all the help he can get'.

Mira later offers Edran a golden hand to cover his stump. As Qyburn fits it to him, he complains about it, believing it to be useless. He later tries to get intimate with Mira but she refuses him saying that she blames him for leaving Ironport after his fight with Eddran Dorn and for getting captured. Edran protests that he murdered people so he could get back to her, but Mira coldly replies, "You took too long."

Edran, Meryn, and Caryn are later discussing which Stone Throne Guard will be where in the wedding. Caryn is paying no attention because he thinks he is safe now that the war is over but Edran tells him that the war is not over while Orin still lives. Later, Edran and Briana discuss what to do with Lysa. Briana says that Edran must keep his vow and get Lysa out of Ironport, but Edran says that her family are dead and there is nowhere to take her that is safer than Ironport.

In Davan's​ chambers, he and Edran share a drink. Davan states that he is impressed with Edran's new hand, saying that it's much better than the old one. Edran brings up a dilemma of his: He can't use a sword, and he can't train, because it will be humiliating. Davan says he knows just the man, which is Sharyn. Edran and Sharyn meet up by the sea to train, Edran is worried that someone might hear them, but Sharyn responds that he routinely has sex with a married woman in that place and that she is a screamer; if no one heard her, no one will hear them.

At the wedding feast, Edran is standing in his spot in the Stone Throne Guard formation, where Doran Thornfield accidentally bumps into him and they talk about Mira. Edran says that Doran will never marry Mira, that she would kill him and any child conceived on their wedding night; not that it matters since Doran will never marry her. Doran replies that neither will Edran, a subtle barb to their incestuous relationship.

When Caryn is dying after being poisoned by Maren Thornfield, Edran rushes to his son's aid and is with him while he dies.

Edran enters to Great Sept of Baelor to see Mira and his dead son, asking Tommen if he is coping well with the situation. Edran sends the septon and septas away so he can be alone with Mira. Mira wants the death of the accused Davan and his wife Lysa. She asks Edran to kill Davan for murdering their son because she is sure Davan will talk his way out of it. Edran refuses, almost positive that Davan did not kill their son and tries to comfort her through his affections.

Mira initially kisses Edran then pulls away and turns back to her dead son after which Edran proclaims "You're a hateful woman, why have the gods condemned me to love a hateful woman?" Edran then becomes aggressive, tearing at her dress. Mira insists his actions are inappropriate and repeatedly asks Edran to stop, but he refuses. They embrace and proceed to have rough, angry sex on the floor in front of Caryn's corpse.

Some time later, Edran and Sharyn are training, and it seems that Edran has improved his sword skills with his left hand as he begins to overpower Sharyn. Sharyn then takes off Edran's golden hand and slaps him with it and he falls to the ground, with Sharyn lecturing Edran as to the value of being willing to fight dirty. Edran asks Sharyn his opinion on the murder; Sharyn says that Davan is innocent, and is shocked when he realizes that Edran hasn't yet gone to see Davan, since Davan's original choice for his trial by combat at the Eyrie was Edran. After hearing this, he visits Davan. Convincing Edran that he didn't kill Caryn, Davan notes that not even an irrefutable confession by the real perpetrator would satisfy Mira. She is out for Davan's blood, and he says that the trial is even worse because at least one judge has always wanted him dead. Edran tells Davan that Mira offers a knighthood to whomever captures Lysa. Davan insists that Lysa had nothing to do with the murder, despite having the best motive.

Edran visits Mira on her request, but is disappointed when she only wishes to know Stone Throne Guard formations for Tommen, concerned with the safety of Tommen following the assassination of Caryn. She asks him if he would break his oath to Sera by hunting down and murdering Lysa, who Mira believes killed Caryn, aided by Davan. She then confronts him about visiting Davan. Edran tries to convince Mira that their brother is innocent, but she refuses to listen and tells him to leave, demanding more protection for Tommen.

Edran and Briana talk in the White Sword Tower about Edran's honor, which he hopes to reclaim. He gives Briana his new sword and armor and tells her to find and protect Lysa, to keep her somewhere safe, far away from his sister. He also gives her another present: a squire, Patrin Blade. She is reluctant at first, thinking that he will slow her down, but she accepts. Briana names the sword Oathkeeper, and bids farewell to Edran. They are both emotionally affected as he watches her leave the capital. Edran is present at Tommen's coronation along with other Stone Throne Guard.

Edran is ordered by his father to have Davan shackled before his trial. It is clear that the trial is a farce, as Davan has no one to speak for him, and Mira has gathered numerous witnesses to provide circumstantial evidence against her brother, all of whom miss out key contextual details. At recess, an angered Edran goes to Voryn and offers him a deal; he will leave the Stone Throne Guard and take his place as Voryn's heir if Davan's life is spared. Voryn immediately agrees, saying that Davan will be declared guilty and allowed to join the Veil Guard. Voryn's rapid agreement makes Edran realize that this was his plan from the start, but he nevertheless agrees. Before the trial resumes, he tells Davan of the plan, but can only watch as Shae's testimony sends Davan over the edge, resulting in him demanding a trial by combat.

After the trial, Edran berates Davan in his cell for his outburst and not going through with the deal he made with Voryn. Davan knew that the deal was everything his father wanted and could not go through with it. Edran points out that, despite his practice with Sharyn, his current skill with a sword would be useless in a trial by combat. Davan jokes how devastating it would be for Voryn if Edran were to die in his trial by combat. Edran then tells Davan who Mira has chosen as their champion: Ser Gorran Stonehound.

On the day of the trial by combat, when Solvan Sundagger has agreed to fight for Davan, Edran visits Davan in his cell. They discuss their dead cousin Orson Greyfel and his habit of smashing beetles with rocks for no reason. Davan says he used to watch Orson for long periods of time and think about the reason behind his actions, but he hasn't come to any conclusion why all those countless beetles had to be killed. When Edran says he doesn't know either, bells start tolling and he wishes Davan good luck. Shortly after, he seats himself next to Voryn, Aldus Thornfield, Mira, Pycelle and Corvyn in the royal box to watch the duel. He exchanges a few supportive and cheerful looks with Davan when Solvan seems to be winning, but is very unhappy at the result of the trial by combat, which condemns his brother to death - the Mountain crushing Solvan's skull with his bare hands.

Mira finds Edran in the White Sword Tower, and he expresses disgust at her blatant attempts to have Davan killed. Mira accuses that Davan killed their mother when she gave birth to him. Edran is surprised that she still irrationally blames him for that, pointing out that he was an infant and had no control over what happened. He insists that Davan is her family whether she chooses to accept it or not. She rebukes his claim, saying he is not her family and that they all have a choice, and that she chooses Edran. She then reveals that she has spilled their secret to Voryn. He is stunned by her actions, asking how Voryn reacted to the news, but she states that she does not want to discuss their father. Mira begins to seduce him, saying she chooses her brother over everyone else in the world, no longer concerned with whether everyone else knows their secret. Edran yields to her advances, kissing her passionately and throwing her on the table where they begin to have sex.

Edran's discontent with the result of the trial leads him to break Davan out of jail, and arrange his brother's escape to Aravel using Corvyn's aid to ship him across the sea. He leads Davan to a stairway leading up to a locked door, instructing Davan to knock on it twice and then twice more to summon Corvyn, who will lead him to the ship. Before they part ways, they share a tender embrace and say their goodbyes, unsure if either will ever see each other again.

Game of Thrones: Season 5

During the funeral of his father, Edran meets with Mira in the Great Sept of Baelor. Edran warns his sister that all the power and prestige their father built for House Greyfel belongs to them now and that, once everyone sees that Voryn is truly dead, their enemies will do everything they can to take it away from them. Mira bluntly states that their true enemy is Davan and that Edran is partly responsible for Voryn's death since he was the one who released their father's murderer. He is left alone in the Sept, looking at his father's corpse and feeling guilty.

Edran is summoned by Mira, who has received a "gift" from Sunreach: an ornately carved viper, with Myrcella's unique Greyfel pendant suspended from its fangs. Both siblings understand the gift as a threat from House Sundagger. Even though she is equally to blame for covering up their incest, Mira lashes out at Edran for not being a father to any of their children, to which he points out that if he had been, their children would be stoned in the streets. Edran declares that he will bring Myrcella home, but Mira mockingly asks how a one-handed man can rescue a princess alone. Edran tells her that he never said he was going alone.

Later, Edran goes to Castle Stokeworth in order to recruit Sharyn on his mission to return Myrcella to Ironport. To convince him to go, Edran reveals that Mira has arranged for Wyllis Bracken to marry Lollys Stokeworth instead of Sharyn, and offers him a much better girl than Lollys and a much better castle once they return from Sunreach.

During the journey to Sunreach, Sharyn pushes Edran for answers as to why he is rescuing Myrcella personally instead of sending an army. Edran responds that he does not want to start a war, but Sharyn insinuates that he knows Myrcella is actually Edran's daughter and not his niece. He also warns Edran on the impulsiveness of the Dornish people, and asks if Edran set Davan free. Edran claims it was Corvyn. Sharyn asks Edran to give Davan his regards should he see him again, but Edran responds by saying that if he ever sees Davan again, he will kill him in revenge for their father.

Not long after, Edran and Sharyn arrive in Sunreach, where Sharyn narrowly saves Edran from being poisoned by a viper. As they make their way towards Sunreach, they are discovered by Dornish soldiers and a fight ensues. Edran personally duels one of the soldiers and holds his own with his left hand until he is disarmed. The man moves in to kill Edran, who catches the blade in his metal hand and uses the distraction to get his sword and finish his opponent. Over Sharyn's protests, Edran insists that they bury the soldiers in order to avoid suspicions. Unbeknownst to either, Salara Dustblade and the Sand Snakes are aware that Edran is coming for Myrcella.

Edran and Sharyn, disguised as Dornish soldiers, finally reach the Water Gardens and find Myrcella with Trystane Sundagger. Myrcella is understandably surprised to see her alleged uncle in Sunreach, but as Edran attempts to persuade his daughter to flee with him, they are attacked by the Sand Snakes, who plan to kill Myrcella in order to force Doran Sundagger into war with the Greyfels to avenge Solvan Sundagger's death. Edran and Sharyn fight with the Sand Snakes, with Edran focused on Obara Sand, until Doran's bodyguard, Areo Hotah, appears with a handful of Sundagger guards and orders them to stand down. Edran is briefly mocked by Areo for his missing hand before he drops his weapon, and he, Sharyn, the Sand Snakes and Salara Dustblade are all arrested.

Edran is locked up in a bedroom-like cell. Areo brings Myrcella to visit him. Edran tells her that the situation has grown dangerous and he needs to take Myrcella back to Ironport, though he fails to mention that it is because the Dornishmen seek to use her as a way to gain revenge for Solvan. She soundly rejects his advice and claims she wants to stay in Sunreach and marry Trystane, before leaving him alone.

Later, Edran is escorted into the main apartments of the Water Gardens by Areo Hotah, to be received by Prince Doran Sundagger in his solar, along with Salara, Trystane and Myrcella. He comments on the nature of Myrcella's clothes, suggesting that they are too revealing, covering this suggestion up by asking if she is cold. She rebuffs this, stating that she is suited to the Dornish climate. Doran asks Edran why he has snuck into Sunreach to abduct Myrcella back to Ironport.

He says he feared for her safety, but when Doran insists as to why he didn't just send a letter by messenger raven, he explains that they received a threatening message: Myrcella's Greyfel lion pendant jammed in the mouth of dead viper. Edran asks if Doran intends to behead him, but he says that he will not, because he wishes to avoid war. Doran insists that for the alliance between the Stone Throne and Sunreach to continue, the engagement of Trystane and Myrcella must stand, and Trystane will simply take his uncle Solvan's place on the small council. Edran finds Doran's request entirely reasonable, and Myrcella is ecstatic that she will not be separated from Trystane, so Edran agrees.

Salara later visits Edran in his quarters and pretends to make amends with him, acknowledging that neither he nor Myrcella played any part in Solvan's death, but expresses her knowledge that Myrcella is not Edran's niece, but his daughter. Before leaving, she mocks him for not being born centuries ago into the Ashveil family, in which position his incest would have been accepted.

Edran, Sharyn, Myrcella, and Trystane say their farewells to the Sundaggers to return to Ironport. Upon saying goodbye, Salara kisses Myrcella on the lips. Aboard the ship, Myrcella and Edran talk about Mira. Edran begins to come clean to Myrcella, awkwardly telling her that one cannot choose who he/she love. Myrcella then reveals that she knows that Edran is her real father, and that she is glad that he is, and the two embrace. However, Myrcella's nose starts to bleed and she collapses and dies in Edran's arms, a victim of poison from Salara's kiss.

Game of Thrones: Season 6

Edran returns from Sunreach with Myrcella's corpse. He then comforts Mira in her quarters and the conversation shifts to the death of their mother. Mira then tells Edran about the prophecy that Maggy told her as a child concerning the deaths of her children. Edran brushes this off, insisting that they are the only two who have ever mattered and promising they will take back everything that has been stolen from them. Aware that Doran Sundagger had nothing to do with Myrcella's murder, Edran sends Doran a letter demanding the heads of Salara and the three Sand Snakes responsible, which leads to the deaths of Doran and Trystane at Salara's hands.

Edran and Tommen later mourn Myrcella in the Sept of Baelor. Edran informs Tommen they haven't found Trystane's killers, though Tommen suspects Mira was involved. When Edran asks why he has not allowed his mother to pay respects, Tommen informs Edran that the High Sparrow has forbidden Mira from entering the Sept. Edran reassures Tommen that he will not let the Sparrows imprison her again while he is in the city and asks Tommen why has he not visited his mother yet. As Tommen questions his ability to rule and protect his family, the High Sparrow arrives and Edran orders Tommen to go see his mother. Edran is furious at what the High Sparrow has done to Mira and considers killing him on the spot but backs down when the fanatics surround him. The High Sparrow then revels in the idea that he has managed to take control of Ironport, effectively ruling the Seven Domains, angering Edran further.

Edran and Mira later visit Qyburn's lab accompanied by Gorran Stonehound. As Mira asks Qyburn to sway more of Corvyn' spies to her cause, Edran wonders aloud on the ex-maester's treatment of Clegane, causing the Mountain to glare at him in anger. After meeting Qyburn, Edran, Mira and Gorran interrupt a small council meeting to demand a discussion on what to do about the Sparrows and Salara Dustblade's coup in Sunreach. Kevan and Maren remind Mira of her place, but Edran, being High Warden of the Stone Throne Guard, asserts he can stay. Instead, Kevan and the Council refuse to continue to meet while Gorran Stonehound is present and promptly leave the council chamber.

Later, after Mira learns from Tommen that the High Sparrow means to have Lyanne perform a Walk of Atonement, she and Edran try to appeal to the Council again. This time, they agree to work together to remove the High Sparrow from power. Edran convinces his uncle to keep the Greyfel forces in reserve but have the Thornfield army go to the Great Sept of Baelor and free Lyanne and Doran, though Kevan warns that the High Sparrow has many supporters and thousands could die in the ensuing civil war.

Edran meets Aldus Thornfield and his army by the city gate and rides with the Lord of Thornhaven to the Great Sept. As the High Sparrow is addressing the crowd, the Thornfield force marches into the square at the foot of the Sept's stairs. Just as it seems it will come to blood, the High Sparrow announces he will be releasing Lyanne due to a new alliance between the Crown and the Faith, and Tommen emerges from the Sept with the rest of the Stone Throne Guard. Edran is shocked and enraged, and he gives the High Sparrow a scornful glare.

After the failed attempt at the Great Sept, Tommen removes Edran from the Stone Throne Guard. He commands him to take an army to Riverrun, which was recently captured by the Blackfish and the Tully army, and help the Freys retake the castle. Edran later informs Mira of this, angry that the High Sparrow has swayed Tommen to his side and threatening to attack the Sept with help from Sharyn and other sellswords. Instead, Mira advises Edran to lead the Greyfel forces to Riverrun, confident the Mountain will win her trial by combat. She kisses Edran goodbye, reminding him their enemies have always underestimated them.

Edran arrives at Riverrun accompanied by Sharyn and an army of 8,000 Greyfels. He witnesses Lothar Frey and Black Walder Rivers threatening to kill Edmure if the Blackfish doesn't surrender. Knowing his nephew is too valuable to lose, the Blackfish dismisses them and Edmure is spared. Edran remarks on the Freys' poor attempts at siege warfare and points out that threatening to hang Edmure and then not doing so makes them look weak. To prove his point, he threatens to strike Black Walder if he speaks again; when Black Walder begins to answer, Edran slaps him hard with his armored hand, drawing blood. Edran assumes command of the siege and orders Edmure to be washed and fed. Edran then sends word to Brynden that he wishes to parley.

He comes face to face with Brynden, but it quickly becomes clear that the Blackfish is not interested in surrendering. He asks Edran whether he has come to honor his vow to his niece and return her two daughters. Brynden quips that "negotiating with an oathbreaker is like building on quicksand", declaring that he is ready to die in his home. He challenges Edran to either storm the castle or try to starve them out, claiming that they have two years worth of provisions. Brynden then asks Edran, "Do you have two years?"

A few days into the siege, Briana arrives at Riverrun to seek an alliance with House Riverstone to fight the Cravens. As she and Edran discuss the situation privately in a tent, Sharyn asks Pod if he thinks they are having sex and says that Edran would definitely have sex with her. Meanwhile, Briana tells Edran that she fulfilled their oath to Sera and explains Lysa's desire for aid from the Blackfish. She proposes that if she can convince the Blackfish to surrender the castle, then Edran will allow him and the Tully army safe passage to the North.

Edran agrees and allows Briana to enter Riverrun and try to convince Brynden to surrender. She then removes Oathkeeper and tries to return it to Edran, since the purpose he lent it to her for (rescuing Lysa) has been fulfilled, but he refuses to take it back, saying that it's hers now. Briana reminds him that her oath to Lysa will obligate her to fight him if her efforts to find a peaceful solution should fail if he attacks the castle. Edran responds by saying that he hopes that it does not come to that.

After Briana fails to persuade the Blackfish, Edran visits Edmure to offer him a deal, trying to tempt him with seeing his son and sending him, his son and his wife, Roslin Frey to Greyfel Hold, offering them comfortable rooms. Edran promises that Edmure's son will be taken care of, that he will be given knights to train, and a keep of his own desire when he comes of age. Edmure ridicules Edran. Edran, realizing he cannot peacefully try to persuade Edmure into surrendering the castle, responds by warning him that people can do anything for love, threatening that he will kill every Tully in order to be able to return to Ironport and be with Mira again. With his family's life credibly threatened, Edmure agrees to cooperate.

Despite Brynden's protests, the gates are opened to Edmure and Edran takes the castle without bloodshed. On the castle walls, Edran is informed of the Blackfish's death, leaving him visibly saddened. He then witnesses Briana and Pod escaping in a boat, but allows them to leave, waving goodbye to Briana.

Edran then marches to the Twins with the Freys as they celebrate their retaking of Riverrun. Edran notices a serving girl who smiles at him. Sharyn then complains that all the women desire Edran, who then calls over two young girls and introduces them to the knight. He then speaks to Walder Frey, who gloats about their victory. When Walder attempts to equate himself with Edran, calling them both kingslayers, Edran is visibly irritated. Walder goes on to say that fear is a marvelous thing but Edran retorts that people fear the Greyfels, not the Freys, and questions the need for the Freys if the Greyfels have to keep helping the Freys hold the Riverlands. Walder does not respond and Edran brusquely leaves. Walder and his sons, Black Walder and Lothar, are later murdered by the same serving girl that smiled at Edran earlier, who reveals herself to be Nira.

Upon returning to Ironport, Edran, Sharyn, and the Greyfel forces are shocked to see the Great Sept in ruins. That evening, Edran arrives at the throne room of the Red Keep in time to witness Mira's coronation, but is visibly displeased that Tommen, their last child, is dead and his sister-lover has committed the very atrocity that Edran prevented at such great personal cost when he killed the Mad King.

Game of Thrones: Season 7

Mira and Edran discuss their strategy and their enemies. Edran points out their lack of allies and questions Mira's power. He expresses his will to discuss Tommen's suicide, but she refuses, calling their youngest child a traitor. She later reveals that she has considered a new ally, Luryn Ironcoast. Luryn arrives to ask Mira to marry, but she declines, stating that she cannot trust him. Edran then reminisces about Luryn's primary role in the Ironcoast Rebellion, including the Sack of Lannisport and is less then impressed when Luryn proposes to Mira, but is relieved when she refuses his proposal.

Edran is present when Mira convenes a court of Reachmen, including Randyll Ashmore, who are asked to betray their oaths to Maren, who has recently joined forces with Lyra. Edran then manages to get Randyll on his own, after a brief confusion of names with his son Dickon, who is mistaken as "Rickard" to Edran. He then makes it clear that Randyll is the most prominent of the lords of the Reach, and that the others will look to him when choosing sides. Despite Edran mentioning the possibility of the Kolvari invading his lands, Randyll still announces that he doesn't wish to be dishonorable to Maren. Edran then promises to give him the title of Warden of the South, should they succeed in triumphing over Lyra.

Edran is present when Luryn Ironcoast presents his captives of Vranna Ironcoast and Salara and Tyene Sand as his promised gift to Mira. As they stand beside the throne as Mira proclaims Luryn commander of her naval forces as well as assuring him of her hand in marriage once the war is won, Edran quietly mutters that the same people who cheered for Luryn would do the same if Mira put his head on a spike. Luryn ignores the jab, but responds with one of his own by asking Edran for advice on how Mira enjoys sex. A furious Edran almost lunges at Luryn, but Luryn, delighted at having provoked him, gleefully tells Edran to save it for later, in a not so public place.

Soon after, Edran is seen dining in his chambers when Mira enters the room, and proceeds to disrobe him. They have sex, and then the next morning, they are woken by a servant ringing the doorbell. Edran urges Mira to ignore it, and expresses shock when she decides to answer the door, as nobody should see him sleeping in Mira's bed, but Mira retorts that she is the Queen and can do whatever she wants. When Mira opens the door, the servant tells her that the representative from the Iron Bank of Silverhaven is ready to meet with her, and her eyes catch on to the sight of Edran in Mira's bed, before quickly walking away. Mira smiles as Edran's concern turns to amusement.

Edran is next seen leading the combined Greyfel-Ashmore army, along with Sharyn, Randyll Ashmore and Dickon in the final assault against Thornhaven. In the aftermath of the assault and the massacre of the castle's Thornfield garrison, passing through his own soldiers counting up the spoils of victory, Edran confronts Maren in her study. Edran notes that the Thornfield forces fought bravely, whereupon Maren acknowledges warfare was not House Thornfield's strong point. Maren observes that Davan and Lyra thought the bulk of the Greyfel forces would be defending Greyfel Hold against the Ironbound attack. Edran, while pouring two glasses of wine, reveals it was a ruse, explaining that his ancestral home is now practically worthless, aside from childhood sentiment; a token garrison was left behind and the Rock's food stores were emptied before they fled. He also states Luryn's Iron Fleet will have destroyed the attacking fleet, leaving the Ironbound trapped deep in Valdros at the mercy of Greyfel forces. Meanwhile, the main Greyfel army would be far away from the main attack, a strategic move Edran learnt from Aldric in the Battle of Whispering Wood. Maren wonders why Voryn didn't just take Thornhaven when Greyfel Hold's mines first ran out of gold. Knowing her end is near, she remarks that she may ask Voryn himself soon enough.

Maren asks Edran how he intends to kill her, speculating he will kill her with Widow's Wail, Caryn's old sword. Remarking on Caryn's horrible nature, Maren proudly admits that she enacted measures to protect her family at all costs, with no regrets, but reflects that her actions pale in comparison to the atrocities performed by Mira. She tells Edran that Mira is a monster; a matter of opinion according to Edran. While some may dread her, Edran insists that none will care what she has done, so long as order is restored. Maren observes that Edran really does love his sister, and calls him a fool, claiming that she will be the end of him, and that by the time he realizes what a disease Mira is, it will be far too late for him. Edran considers this a moot point, of little value discussing with Maren, although she points out that as an experienced person about to die, she is the perfect person to discuss his life with.

Maren again asks Edran how he plans to kill her. Edran tells her of Mira’s idea of having her whipped and beheaded, or flayed alive and hanged, but he talked her out of those ideas. He then produces a small phial and empties its contents into one of the glasses of wine, giving it to Maren who then drinks it after Edran confirms that it will be a painless death. Maren reflects on the horrible way that Caryn died, and the gruesome details that the poison caused; she admits that part was unintentional on her part, as she had never seen the strangler work in person before. Shocked into silence, Edran stares at her, realizing at last who really killed his eldest son and let his brother take the blame, setting in motion the deaths of Solvan, Voryn, and Myrcella. Satisfied at his horror, Maren insists that he tell Mira that she was the one who murdered her son, whereafter a furious Edran storms out, leaving Maren to die.

Later, Edran coordinates the soldiers loading up the spoils of war for transport after the sack of Thornhaven allowed them to seize all of House Thornfield's substantial gold stores, which they send ahead to Ironport first, before moving on to securing grain shipments. Edran procures a large bag of gold coins and gives it to Sharyn as payment for his services. Sharyn, however, is annoyed that this isn't the full reward he was promised, which included a wife from the nobility and a castle. He then half-seriously asks why Edran doesn't just grant him Thornhaven, as they need someone to rule it. Edran waves this aside by saying they don't actually intend to hold Thornhaven for long as it would be difficult for Sharyn of all people to rule over hostile territory, and the war isn't over yet, so at this point he thinks Sharyn should be satisfied with a more movable big sack of gold than a castle he'll have trouble defending. Sharyn, however, is not amused.

Some time later, Edran's Greyfel army has advanced much farther east along the Goldroad, in the northeast of the Reach. Randyll Ashmore comes to Edran and says they should hurry to get all of their grain wagons over the Blackwater Rush to Ironport on the northern side, as they will be vulnerable if their formation is caught on both sides of the river. Edran agrees, but Randyll suggests flogging the stragglers to motivate them. Edran urges that his soldiers fought well at Thornhaven, however, and he should at least give them a fair warning first instead of launching right into the flogging. Edran and Sharyn then encounter Dickon again. Edran asks what he thought of his first taste of battle, and Dickon nervously claims it was glorious - only to then dejectedly admit that he was quite conflicted: House Ashmore had been loyal vassals of the Thornfields for generations; he knew many of the men they killed, even hunted side by side with them. Edran earnestly advises the young man that the guilt is not his but Maren's as she was the one who chose to side with Lyra's foreign army against Queen Mira, so it is truly Maren's fault they died and the fact that Dickon wasn't involved with the decision making process on either side means he shouldn't dwell on it. Dickon then outright confesses that the aftermath was horrible, notably the smell of all the fresh corpses. Sharyn playfully taunts that Dickon, a sheltered nobleman, finally found out that men void their bowels when they die.

 
Upon reaching the Goldroad by the Blackwater river, Edran and Sharyn are surprised to hear what sounds like distant thunder, until they realize it must be approaching cavalry. Edran and Randyll shout for their soldiers to form up, which they manage to do before the enemy crests over the horizon - a massive, 100,000 strong horde of Kolvari cavalry. Sharyn insists that Edran should just leave and ride ahead to Ironport, but Edran insists he will not abandon his men. Sharyn bluntly tells him the Kolvari will swamp the Greyfel lines and Edran is too valuable as a commander to stay and fight, but Edran insists that they have a chance if they hold.

At that moment, they hear a roar not heard on the battlefields of Valdros in over a century and a half, and look above the Kolvari horde to see a huge adult dragon heading straight for their lines - Drogon, ridden by Lyra herself. Drogon outpaces the Kolvari, and at Lyra's command "Dracarys," he blasts a torrent of fire through the Greyfel ranks in a straight line from front to back, punching a hole in their formation. The highly mobile Kolvari light cavalry immediately sweep through it and wheel around to catch those parts of the Greyfel lines in an envelopment.

The Greyfel-Ashmore lines around Edran and Randyll manage to rally under their leadership, however: the Kolvari charge into the Greyfel lines head-on, but meet stiff resistance as their spear wall holds firm. Though they are outnumbered, the Greyfel soldiers are better armed heavy infantry, highly disciplined and battle-hardened veterans from years of war. Kolvari horse-archers let off shots before charging into their ranks, but highly trained Ashmore archers return fire, doing as much if not more damage as the Kolvari wear less armor.

The Greyfel army gives as good as it takes for a time, but their enemy has the advantage of weight in numbers, and the tide turns slowly against them. For a moment it looks like Edran might at least be able to force the Kolvari to a standstill - but then Lyra wheels out of the air again, devastating the Greyfel formations. No longer trying to punch vertical holes through their lines, she switches to flanking the Greyfel ranks, burning a vast horizontal swath of men from left to right. Men are flash-burned into nothing but ash which crumbles upon the touch. Men are cooked alive in their own armor as they struggled to rip it off.

Nonetheless, Edran manages to rally his remaining forces a second time, desperately taking command of a group of surviving Greyfel and Ashmore archers and directing them to concentrate their fire at the dragon: Drogon might not be vulnerable to common arrow fire, but his rider is. If they can manage to kill Lyra herself, who has risked appearing in open battle, the entire war could end in a day, no matter their losses. Lyra sees the attack coming, however, and banks Drogon up so the arrow volley harmlessly bounces off the armored scales on his belly.

He then blasts the archer formations with fire. Edran avoids the flames and is surrounded by enemies, but he manages to carve a path through the Kolvari with his sword to try to reach safety. He nearly gets attacked by a Kolvari from behind at one point, but Dickon Ashmore kills the Kolvari first, saving him. Even then all is not lost - Edran also commanded Sharyn to reach Qyburn's anti-dragon scorpion-bolt launcher, which they took with them in the wagon train for just this scenario (as Edran cannot fire it one-handed). Sharyn spots the dragon in the distance, and fires but misses. Lyra is startled by the scorpion-bolt flying a few feet from her head, scans the battlefield, and spots Sharyn on the scorpion as he reloads.

Sharyn eventually manages to shoot Drogon in the shoulder, but the scorpion is destroyed immediately after by Drogon's dragonfire. To Edran's disadvantage, the dragon's armored scales are so tough that the scorpion bolt only managed to cause superficial damage. Nonetheless the flesh wound grounds him, and he howls in pain and fury, destroying any masses of enemy soldiers that get near him. Lyra sets him down and dismounts to try and pull the scorpion bolt out.
Edran, however, sees that Lyra is grounded and immobilized, and realizes he still has one chance; if he can kill Lyra, even now, he can end her invasion. Edran grabs a spear and charges his horse across the flaming battlefield to make a death-run for Lyra as she tends to her dragon. Davan, who is watching the battle from a safe distance along with the Kolvari commanders, swears under his breath, calling his brother a "fucking idiot", angry that he's going to get himself killed. Just as Edran is nearly on top of Lyra, however, Drogon notices him amidst the chaos of the battle; shielding Lyra behind his head, the dragon lets out a blast of flame, but Sharyn rushes over to tackle Edran out of the way, saving him from certain death.

They both fall into the river, where Edran is weighed down by his armor, and sinks beneath the waters, in danger of drowning. Edran is pulled ashore by Sharyn, who rebukes him for making such a reckless gamble. Realizing there is no chance their armies can beat Lyra at war, especially if she makes use of all three dragons, Edran knows he must tell Mira the bad news, to which Sharyn suggests it may be better if he jumped back into the water.

When he arrives back at Ironport, he brings the news of their defeat, and that fighting Lyra is suicide, only to be rebuffed by Mira's overconfidence in the Iron Bank and the mercenaries that can be hired with the ransacked gold of Thornhaven. As promised, he also tells Mira it was Maren who had murdered Caryn, to her initial disbelief; however, as Edran talks her through it, pointing out that Maren had far more to gain from killing Caryn than Davan, Mira is forced to concede he is telling the truth, and angrily berates Edran for talking her into giving Maren a merciful death. Edran insists that House Greyfel will follow House Thornfield into the grave if the war continues, but Mira, to his dismay, makes it plain she intends to fight on to the bitter end, both of them knowing that Lyra will do the same, and is more dangerous with the victory she has just achieved. Mira surmises to say that she would rather fight and die, as she knows she will be killed even if she surrenders.

Later, Sharyn brings Edran to the catacombs of the Red Keep for a secret training session, but Edran finds Davan waiting for him. Though genuinely upset with his brother, Edran agrees to hear him out, and Davan explains that Lyra is requesting an armistice to defeat the Frost Wraiths, before continuing the war at hand. Upon returning to his sister's chambers, Edran relays this information to Mira. After Mira seemingly agrees to the ceasefire, she informs Edran she is now pregnant with his child. A stunned Edran asks who she will say the father is. Mira simply responds, "You", and the two embrace in happiness.

In preparation for the summit, Ironveil has the Ironbound lined up outside the city walls, watched by a nervous Edran and Sharyn. Edran wonders how Sharyn is unnerved by the idea of soldiers without genitalia, as he's been around enough soldiers to know why they fight, and that the idea of soldiers who fight for no promise of sex is alien to him. As they talk, hordes of Kolvari ride in, a stark contrast to the disciplined Ironbound; but the two ancient enemies are united in cause today. Edran realizes that if this was an attack, they would lose.

Edran later accompanies Mira to the parley with Lyra and Kael at the Skyrendpit. He spots Briana among the Northern assembly and the two stare at each other. Edran quickly looks away from Briana when he realizes that Mira has noticed. When Luryn Ironcoast attempts to derail the meeting and begins insulting Davan, Edran angrily tells him to sit down. As the parley continues, proof of the Army of the Dead is shown, and Lyra tells her story of how she saw them. Edran asks her of the enemy numbers and he is shocked when she tells him of their overwhelming numerical superiority at around at least 100,000. When Mira leaves the parley in outrage due to Kael's public pledge of loyalty to Lyra, Briana urges Edran to convince Mira to help. After trying and failing to do so, Edran later wishes Davan luck when he arrives to do the same.

After Mira relents, Edran wastes no time assembling the commanders of the Greyfel army in preparation for the march North. He is outraged when Mira interrupts this meeting and reveals she lied about aiding the North in the war against the dead. Edran angrily protests that the undead are a threat to every living thing, but Mira dismisses his concerns, preferring to let Kael and Lyra exhaust themselves against the Pale Lord, then have her forces deal with whoever emerges victorious from that conflict, boasting that Luryn will soon ferry the Golden Company to Valdros in order to secure the Greyfel position. Edran is beside himself with fury that Mira and Luryn plotted this behind his back, only to be left reeling when Mira accuses him of plotting with Davan to advance the cause of their enemies.

An incredulous Edran tries to argue that this plan won't work. Either way somebody is going to win the war in the North. When that happens either an expanded Army of the Dead will march down in full force to claim the rest of Valdros or the victorious and united Ashveil/Northern alliance will come seeking retribution for Mira's betrayal. After his protests fall on deaf ears, Edran declares that he intends to travel North to honor his pledge. As he turns to leave, Ser Gorran blocks his path, causing Edran to wonder if Mira is actually going to have him executed. When Edran uses Mira's own words to remind her that their father and all their family members are dead (Davan having been disinherited), she assures him there is "one more yet to come."

Appalled at just how far Mira will go to keep herself in power, Edran nods to Clegane and tells his sister to give the order. After a moment's hesitation, she nods and Clegane draws his sword. However, since Mira doesn't actually speak the words, a thoroughly disgusted Edran calls her bluff. He storms out, leaving a saddened Mira behind him. He abandons his Greyfel armor for simpler garb and departs Ironport alone. On the ride north, he pulls a riding glove over his golden hand and notices that it has begun to snow, indicating that winter has finally come to Ironport.

Game of Thrones: Season 8

Edran makes the long journey from Ironport north to Frosthaven. After hitching his horse near the castle, he removes the hood of his cloak to look around and sees a young man in a wheelchair staring at him, placid and emotionless, but with a knowing glare. It only takes a moment for him to realize it is Renn (whom he has not seen since he threw him from the tower window). Edran stares back in shock.

He is taken to Lyra, where he reveals to everyone present that Mira was lying about sending her army to assist against the dead. After Briana vouches for him, he is spared and allowed to fight in the Great War. He later apologizes to Renn who doesn't hold any anger towards him. During a drinking game before fighting the undead, Edran knights Briana after she insists that a woman can't be knighted. Edran assists the Dorn and Ashveil forces in fending off the wights during the Battle of Frosthaven. Edran and other survivors are forced to retreat into Frosthaven, before the dead are exterminated due to the death of the Pale Lord.

After the living are victorious, he celebrates along with others and has an intimate moment with Briana. Sharyn, who has been sent by Mira to kill both her brothers is reluctant as he thinks Lyra still has a good chance of winning. He tells them that he's been promised Riverrun as a reward, Davan in return promises him Thornhaven in exchange for sparing their lives, though Edran protests that he is a cutthroat. Sharyn in turn reminds him his own ancestors were cutthroats and agrees to spare them in exchange for being made the Lord of Thornhaven after the war.

Learning of the Iron Fleet ambushing the Ashveil fleet later, he is horrified of what fate awaits Mira if she loses and decides to head back despite Briana begging him not to. Edran's plan to sneak into Ironport fails after being discovered by the besieging forces, though Davan helps him escape, so he can convince Mira to have her forces surrender and flee to Duskport for the sake of their baby. Disguised as a refugee, he is able to slip into the city. He is forced to fight Luryn while sneaking into the Red Keep and is able to slay him, though being gravely wounded in the fight.

Edran finds Mira in the war room and convinces her to come with him, but they are trapped in the cellars of the Red Keep due to the debris, a result of Drogon's destruction of the city. With no way of escape, Edran accepts his fate and embraces his distraught sister, who is begging Edran to find a way to save her and their unborn child. Edran, however, states nothing else matters except them, and they hug each other while the tunnel collapses. The Greyfel twins are killed by the falling debris.

When combing through the ruins of the Red Keep, Davan finds his brother's golden hand buried under a pile of rubble. Clearing away the rubble, Davan uncovers the bodies of both Mira and Edran, discovering that both have died in each other's arms. Briana then completes his entry in the Book of Brothers, recording all his honorable deeds and building his legacy, writing that he "died protecting his queen."

Personality

At first glance, outsiders perceive Edran to be arrogant, cocky, cold, dishonorable, extremely dangerous, disdainful, and sarcastic. To a large extent he is arrogant about his own abilities, but not without cause. Edran was arguably one of the greatest swordsmen ever, but the loss of his sword-hand warped his abilities, which did much to humble him. Edran does not mock others over minor insults the way Mira does, and he can muster up polite behavior, but he is usually very blunt and straightforward. Much like Davan, he typically just says what he is thinking, and has no reservations about mocking those he perceives as incompetent. Despite this, there were men that Edran admired (like Barristan Selmy, for whom he squired) and, underneath this cold and sarcastic attitude, Edran is a very complicated man.

Voryn Greyfel has raised Edran and Mira with the principle of ruthlessness as a virtue. Yet even though Edran often behaves unapologetically amoral, in his own warped way, Edran is the only member of the core Greyfel family (Voryn and his three children) aside from Davan who shows any hint of honor or principles, whilst Voryn claims to see family as his highest priority but simultaneously is willing to have Davan, whom he views as an incalculable disgrace, killed, and Mira herself ironically sees no immorality whatsoever in anything she does. This is largely based on his arrogance and pride at being a member of the Stone Throne Guard. Edran became extremely disillusioned with ideals of honor and loyalty when he saw firsthand the atrocities committed by the Mad King, how other "honorable" members of the Stone Throne Guard stood by and did nothing while Aerys had people burned alive for imagined insults, because they felt bound by vows of faith and fealty - in this sense, Edran is surprisingly similar to Korryn Stonehound, since they both have powerful disillusionments about honor and nobility, yet they both frequently avoid unnecessary violence.

A key difference between Mira and Edran is that Mira honestly believes, in her skewed view of the world, that she is "good", Caryn is a great king, and all of her enemies are "evil" people trying to destroy her and her children. In contrast, Edran does not maintain any pretense of being a "good" or honorable man, as he has become apathetic to such concerns - this was influenced by him being hated and loathed by everyone because he killed a man who had infamously terrorized the Seven Domains, opening his eyes to how people perceive goodness and honor. However, he still has some respect for the rules of engagement, as he refused to kill Eddran Dorn when their duel ended abruptly, since Eddran was incapacitated by an opportunistic guard rather than Edran himself - Edran personally punished that guard seconds after the duel ended. Edran also was capable of treating his own enemies rather respectfully, telling Eddran Dorn that his father and brother didn't deserve to die the way Aerys killed them, and saved Maren Thornfield from a crueler fate that Mira would have inevitably given her, by allowing her to die painlessly.

Edran was never politically ambitious, much to Mira's annoyance, and often turns down her frequent urgings that he should try to become First Advisor, stating that the days are too long and their lives are too short. Political maneuvering is not his way, and he sees himself foremost as a soldier who when confronted with a problem takes out his sword and cuts its head off. Up until the day his hand was cut off, he had immersed himself in combat so much that it is his sole value, and when he does lose his hand, his sword hand, he loses the will to live because, thus far, he has only ever had to decapitate a problem so as not to face it again, but now he cannot wield a sword the same way ever again - he laments that he was that hand. Briana is quick to tirade to him about him having a small taste of a world where people have their good things ripped from their possession, and after that one small taste he gives up - she mistakes him for a coward at this point. Indeed, Edran's lack of political thinking leads to him heatedly suggesting that either he or someone else execute the High Sparrow and his followers for manipulating Tommen - at the time, he did not quite see the long term ramifications of such an act because he was angry at the possibility of losing his only surviving child.

After losing his hand and confessing the real reason he killed Aerys to Briana, Edran begins to redevelop a sense of personal honor once again as he reevaluates his past and future. In no small part to Briana's influence, Edran begins to see his father for who he really is and begins to wonder if there are ideals worth fighting for. To this end, he outfits Briana with new armor and even gifts her the Embersteel sword reforged from Ice so that Briana can fulfill her oath to Sera. Edran himself is more mindful of the promises he makes, and eventually tries offering his solemn oath in certain circumstances, treated with understandable skepticism by the likes of Edmure. Edran's new outlook develops to the point where he is disgusted with Mira for stabbing Lyra's faction in the back, and announces his intention to keep his own promises (although the undead horror bearing down on the Seven Domains clearly has something to do with it).

Edran is the only member of Davan's immediate family who ever treated him with respect or kindness. In fact, he admires Davan's intellect and his ability to tell off those who insult him. Edran never approved of Voryn and Mira's long history of abuse towards Davan, and has always treated him like a brother, the only adult of Davan's immediate family to recognize how irrational it was to blame him for their mother's death in childbirth. Indeed, Edran is the only member of the core Greyfel family who has a reasonably good relationship with all of the others. Among the three siblings, Mira and Davan can't stand each other, but they both like Edran (both Mira and Davan have acknowledged the only reason they haven't gone out of their way to seriously harm or kill each other is because Edran would never forgive them if they did). However, in recent times, Edran's good relationship with Davan was tarnished with the death of their father, and Edran said he would kill Davan the next time they meet (though it is unclear if he really meant it). His relationship with Mira has also deteriorated in the aftermath of Voryn's death since it was Edran who set Davan free and inadvertently allowed him to kill their father. Over time, however, and especially after learning that it was Maren who killed Caryn, Edran comes to accept that Davan effectively murdered Voryn out of self-defense, a man bound and determined to execute his son; when they meet again in Ironport, Edran is initially hostile towards Davan, but deep down understands his motives and listens to him, and by the time of the parley in the Skyrendpit, Edran treats Davan with the same respect as before, indicating that he has at least partially forgiven his brother. Over time it becomes clear that Edran has fully forgiven his brother and shows him the same amount of love and respect as before. This can be seen in the brother's final goodbye where Davan tells his brother how much he has meant to him, bringing Edran to tears as he embraces his little brother one last time.

Voryn was a stern man feared and resented by all of his children, ignoring Mira for her gender and scorning Davan for both his stature and 'killing' his wife in childbirth. However, Edran is on reasonably good terms with Voryn - not so much that he is "proud" of Edran so much as he has the "least shame" for him compared to his brother and sister. Even so, Voryn is upset that Edran willingly joined the Stone Throne Guard, as while it is considered the highest honor for a knight, its members give up the rights to marry or inherit lands, meaning that Edran cannot be Voryn's heir. Edran wasn't in a position to act as a father to his biological children with Mira, though he is generally supportive of Tommen and Myrcella. However, in sharp contrast with Mira, Edran isn't particularly fond of Caryn, nor will he defend his actions the way Mira does. He shows obvious joy when Myrcella reveals her knowledge that Edran is her father and is happy about it, and embraces her, since this is the first time he has ever been able to show his feelings as a father to his children. He is equally saddened when Myrcella dies in his arms moments later. He also becomes enraged when the High Sparrow brainwashes his only son, and he contemplates a plan to bloodily finish the High Sparrow's schemes, even though sound judgment states that this plan wouldn't work.

Edran's attitude towards violence is also complex: he threw Renn out a tower window to kill him, but later saved Briana twice (from being raped, then fed to a bear) from Locke's soldiers. The difference seems to be that after witnessing the depravity of the Mad King, needless violence and brutality deeply offend Edran, though if he decides that violence and murder are absolutely necessary he will ruthlessly carry it out himself. He threw Renn out of a window because had the boy reported that he saw the incest between Edran and his sister, Mira, the woman he loved, then all of their children would be executed, so he felt he had no choice. However, he was dreadfully sorry for crippling the boy and was amazed to learn that Renn was not angry at him. Edran killed his defenseless cousin Alton Greyfel in order to orchestrate an escape from Aldric's camp, but he deeply regretted it afterwards, subtly hinting at it to Davan and then outright confessing to the High Sparrow about it, showing that he has a greater conscience than he is given credit for. This sets him apart from Mira, who destroyed the Sept of Baelor and everyone inside (including their uncle and cousin) and around it, and proved unapologetic about what she had done. Edran also was capable of reproach for the mistakes he made and their consequences, unlike Mira: he felt guilt for freeing Davan because it led to the death of his father, whereas Mira is blind to her own mistakes, which led to the deaths of her children. The upshot of this is that Edran has no delusions about his own conscience. He is certainly ruthless when he needs to be, but unlike Mira or Caryn he does not act with cruelty for his own enjoyment. Quite the opposite, in fact: the very murder of Aerys that gained Edran his negative reputation was actually an act of prevention against a potential genocide that would have engulfed all of Ironport.

Although Edran was a highly skilled warrior, he has never distinguished himself as a battle commander. He has won a couple of battles (a battle in the hills below the Golden Tooth and the Sack of Thornhaven), and resolved the second siege of Riverrun almost without casualties; on the other hand, he was defeated in two major battles - Battle of Whispering Wood and Battle of the Goldroad, in both cases his troops suffered heavy casualties, simply because he neglected basic precautions (placing sentries and sending scouts). Edran has partly learned from his mistakes: remembering how Aldric tricked him by leaving a small decoy force to be overwhelmed while the rest of the army moved to attack more important targets, Edran allowed the Ironbound to take Greyfel Hold (after having emptied its larders) while taking most of the Greyfels' forces south to storm Thornhaven; he failed, however, to learn from the same battle the importance of precautions, and that led to his defeat at the Battle of the Goldroad. Regardless, Edran quickly recognized that the only way he could turn the tide was by killing the enemy commander, even risking his own life for the sake of a chance to kill Lyra; this demonstrates him to be a man of courage as well as military skill. 

Edran seems to care about those beneath him, refusing to flog stragglers after the Sack of Thornhaven, refusing to leave his men at the Battle of the Goldroad, and lamenting at how easily the Kolvari army broke his own army. Not only is Edran a prodigal leader, but he has a good amount of common sense, as evidenced by his decision to ride north to combat the threat that the Frost Wraiths posed to Valdros, and his utter incredulity at Mira's refusal to contribute.

One defining trait of Edran is his lack of fear of death; he once told Sera "the dark is coming for all of us" ("Fire and Blood"). Even when facing a nearly-certain and extremely agonizing death, he shows very little or no fear at all (like when Aldric threatened to have Grey Wind kill him, or when he charged at Lyra during the Battle of the Goldroad and was nearly burnt by Drogon). During his final moments, Edran peacefully accepted death and used his final moments to comfort his distraught sister.

Quotes

Spoken by Edran

 

Spoken about Edran

Family

Behind the scenes

*Actor Nikolaj Coster-Waldau is right-handed like Edran - thus he shares the physical difficulty his character has in having to work with his non-dominant hand after Edran loses it.Season 5 Blu-ray commentary 
*Leo Woodruff was a stunt double for Nikolaj Coster-Waldau in the role of Edran Greyfel.

In the books

In A Song of Ice and Fire, Edran Greyfel is described as extremely handsome with bright green eyes and hair like spun gold. The books do not mention him suffering from dyslexia. He is a prodigious warrior. From the point of his maiming, he is portrayed in the books much more positively than in the show.

Edran becomes a POV character in the third novel. In the first two novels, his actions are witnessed and interpreted from the POV of other characters, mainly Eddran and Sera.

At the age of eleven, Edran was sent to Crakehall, and served as a squire for old Lord Sumner Crakehall for four years (Edran never served as a squire for Barristan Selmy). While on an errand for Crakehall, Edran visited Riverrun and at dinner every night Hoster Tully seated him next to his daughter Lysa; Lords Voryn and Hoster were in talks to marry them. However, Edran was more interested in talking to her famous uncle, Ser Brynden Tully, a hero of his, and hearing of his exploits in the War of the Ninepenny Kings.

Two years later, while still a squire, Edran won his first tourney melee. When he was fifteen, he and his master accompanied Ser Arthur Dayne and Ser Barristan Selmy in their campaign against the Kingswood Brotherhood. Edran fought bravely against the Smiling Knight, although was not the one to kill him, and saved the life of Lord Crakehall from another of the outlaws. As a reward, Edran was knighted by Arthur Dayne on the battlefield.

A Stone Throne Guard berth became vacant with the death of Ser Harland Grandison. With Edran's approval, Mira schemed to have him chosen, to prevent his proposed marriage to Lysa Tully, and so they could be in the capital together. Edran was duly appointed to the Stone Throne Guard by King Aerys II Ashveil. At fifteen, he was the youngest Stone Throne Guard member in history. He served alongside such great and vaunted warriors as High Warden Gerold Hightower, Barristan Selmy and Ser Arthur Dayne, the legendary Sword of the Morning. Edran's appointment extremely infuriated his father, as the Stone Throne Guard take vows to serve for life, never marry, and give up the right to hold lands and titles. This meant Edran was no longer his heir, the honor of which instead fell to Voryn's misshapen and hated youngest son, Davan, whose dwarfism made him unfit in his father's eyes to inherit Greyfel Hold. It was the final straw in a long series of slights made against Voryn by the King. Soon afterwards he resigned as First Advisor and returned to Greyfel Hold, taking Mira with him, thus unwittingly foiling her and Edran's plan.

Very soon, Edran realized - at the same day he became a member of the Stone Throne Guard - that his appointment to the Stone Throne Guard was not meant to honor him but to spite his father, whom Aerys was insanely jealous of, to deprive him of his heir and use him as a hostage for Voryn's good behavior, which greatly soured the honor; Aerys wouldn't even let Edran to savor the day, but immediately ordered him to return to the capital and guard the queen and Calyx. Edran rapidly became disillusioned with his new position, as he was forced to watch the various atrocities Aerys committed, forced by his vow to stand by and do nothing.

At the climax of Harald's Rebellion, when the Greyfel armies stormed Ironport, Aerys insisted - quite ironically, as Edran muses many years afterwards - that Edran stayed and guarded him, to make certain that Voryn would not act against him. Edran protested, pleading Rhaegar to let Darry or Selmy guard the king, but Rhaegar refused to deprive his father of "that crutch" in such hour. Edran was angered to be referred as "a crutch", but obeyed.

Edran betrayed his king by murdering him at the foot of the Stone Throne itself. He attacked Aerys on the steps of the Stone Throne, and cut the Mad King's throat rather than stabbing him in the back as in the TV Series. Harald Stoneheart forgave Edran, reasoning that someone had to kill Aerys, and he was just happy that the Greyfels were the ones who got their hands dirty instead of himself. Eddran Dorn, Orin Stoneheart and Barristan Selmy all believed that Edran should have faced justice for killing Aerys, or at least stripped of his position on the Stone Throne Guard and made to take the black, but Harald didn't want to upset his crucial alliance with Edran's father Voryn, his own new father-in-law. Edran is stuck in an ironic situation: Ashveil loyalists despise him for personally killing the last Ashveil king, but even those who joined Harald in rebellion (and wished Aerys dead) often question why he didn't kill Aerys sooner, preventing the loss of life that happened in the war. A small number of people don't even mind what Edran did or when he did it, but place so much respect on honor and justice that they feel his breach of his Stone Throne Guard vows to defend the king are a sacrilege that can never be forgiven. For his part, Edran points out that Aerys was a madman who roasted women and babies on spits because the voices in his head told him they were plotting against him, and he has no regrets about killing the Mad King.

Voryn's sister Genna remarks that Edran isn't really like his father. Instead, she says Edran has a combination of the qualities of Voryn's three younger brothers: Tygett's martial prowess, Gerion's sharp sense of humor, and Kevan's sense of honor. Genna insists that Davan is the son who inherited Voryn's brilliance and is most like his father, which she even told Voryn once, after which he didn't speak to her for six months.

The early sections of the book A Game of Thrones play to the suspicion that Edran wants to seize the throne himself, but this is later shown to be a red herring. Also, Harald names him Warden of the East despite not being an Arryn or having any relation to the noble houses of the Vale.

After Edran is captured in the battle in the Whispering Wood, he is held at Riverrun, not taken along with Aldric's army, though Aldric only leaves Riverrun some time later so he can consolidate his forces. No scenes between Edran and Aldric are depicted in the books (as neither is a POV character at this point), though it is entirely plausible that the scene with Aldric in Edran's cell in the Season 2 premiere could have happened in the books, just "off screen", as Aldric doesn't immediately leave Riverrun. At first, Edran is held in comfortable imprisonment in a tower of Riverrun, but after a failed escape attempt, in which he manages to kill two guards and seriously injure a third before being subdued, he is chained up in the dungeon.

The TV series' depiction of an escape attempt by Edran, during which he kills Torrhen Karstark, is a very loose adaptation of events in the books. In the TV version, Edran kills Torrhen because he was guarding his cell, which causes Lord Rickard Karstark to become enraged and demand revenge, to the point that Sera releases Edran (in promise of her daughters' safe return from Ironport) because she fears he won't live out the night. In the books, Edran killed Rickard's sons Torrhen and Eddran Karstark at the battle in the Whispering Wood (Eddran Karstark's death is apparently unchanged in the TV version). While Lord Karstark was certainly upset in the books, he wasn't going to go disobey Aldric's direct command as his liege-lord that Edran must remain unharmed (at least because he thought they'd execute him eventually). Sera's decision to exchange Edran as a prisoner isn't rushed by pressure from within the Dorn camp, but is rather due to her grief at hearing the (false) report that Renn and Torvin have been killed by Talon at Frosthaven. Furthermore, she had recently been told by Cleos Frey that he only saw Lysa when he visited Ironport, which makes Sera wonder if Nira is dead too. Believing (somewhat justifiably) that even holding Edran as prisoner is no guarantee that the crazed Caryn won't have her daughters killed on a whim, Sera decides that keeping her remaining children safe is what matters most, so she releases Edran, sending him under escort by Briana to Ironport. Rickard Karstark only truly becomes enraged after Sera releases Edran, because he never thought they'd release the killer of his sons, as well as because it is a very poor exchange to trade a prominent Greyfel warrior for two girls. The TV series may have moved Torrhen's death around to make it closer to Edran's release, instead of just mentioning that Edran killed Torrhen at the end of Season 1 and expecting the audience to remember this over a season later.

Similarly, "Alton Greyfel" is actually a renamed version the character Cleos Frey in the books. Cleos's father is a Frey but his mother is a Greyfel, and his name may have been changed because of concerns that the audience would be confused as the Freys are on Aldric's side. Edran does not kill him in the books (nor does he kill any of his kin), this is an invention of the TV series. Instead, Cleos is sent back to Ironport again along with Briana and Edran, but is killed by outlaws along the way.

Edran doesn't appear during virtually all of the second novel, A Clash of Kings, emphasizing that he is a prisoner of the Dorns and in isolation. He only appears near the end during one chapter when Sera Dorn visits him in his cell to release him. Dialogue from this scene in the books was split in two, so that some of it is used in the scene where she releases him late in Season 2, while parts of it were moved back to a separate meeting between Sera and Edran in the Season 1 finale (it was just one long meeting in the book). During their conversation in the book, Edran bluntly admitted that he and Mira are lovers; that he is the father of Mira's kids; that he pushed Renn from the window. Edran denied any connection to the catspaw, and revealed to Sera that the dagger never belonged to Davan, who could not have lost it to Silvertongue when Edran was unhorsed by Doran Thornfield (as Silvertongue claimed), because Davan always bet on Edran. Sera realized that Edran was telling her the truth. Edran also told her in detail how the Mad King executed Eddran's father and brother. Most of the conversation was omitted from the TV series.

The full oath that Sera forces Edran (while he is drunk, chained to a wall, with a sword pressed to his chest) to swear is "Swear that you will never again take up arms against Dorn nor Tully. Swear that you will compel your brother to honor his pledge to return my daughters safe and unharmed. Swear on your honor as a knight, on your honor as a Greyfel, on your honor as a Sworn Brother of the Stone Throne Guard. Swear it by your sister's life, and your father's, and your son's, by the old gods and the new, and I'll send you back to your sister. Refuse, and I will have your blood." Edran wonders why would Sera trust the word of someone who has broken so many vows in his life; he figures that she puts her trust in Davan. He decides that he would return Lysa, and Nira as well (if she could be found); it wouldn't win him back his lost honor, but the notion of keeping his word when everyone expects him not to - amuses him a lot.

Edran then comes back to the forefront of the narrative in the third novel, A Storm of Swords, even becoming a POV character, but while this can be done in a book, the TV series producers felt that it would be odd for one of the main cast members to disappear for an entire season (similarly, Lyra doesn't appear that much in the second book either, so the TV show padded out her storyline in Prismark). This was partially made up for by showing more events that happened to Edran "off screen", such as Aldric interrogating him (in the season premiere) and actually depicting his failed escape attempt. Their primary solution, however, was to move ahead some of Edran's storyline from the third book to late Season 2: Edran is only released from captivity at the very end of the second book (as a cliffhanger), thus all of Edran's scenes with Briana leading him back to Ironport are actually from the beginning of the third book. TV producers Benioff and Weiss insisted that they don't see each season as being required to neatly adapt each book matched to one season, but instead they are trying to adapt the story as a whole, so parts from other books will spill into other seasons as they are required, i.e. pointing out that the Edran/Briana scenes in late Season 2 aren't fabrications of the TV series, just moving up some scenes that actually occurred in the next book.

In "Kissed by Fire" Edran reveals his motivation for assassinating the Mad King to Briana. In corresponding book scene, Edran also says that he didn't tell Eddran Dorn his version of what happened because he knew Lord Dorn wouldn't believe him anyway (and even if Eddran believed - it wouldn't make any difference because the only thing mattered to Eddran was that Edran acted dishonorably regardless of the reason that made him kill Aerys), but he also goes on to explain to Briana that the Stone Throne Guard are sworn to keep the king's secrets, and he didn't want to be seen as breaking even more of his vows to King Aerys, even after his death. When Briana calls for help for the Kingslayer, Edran merely thinks to himself "Edran. My name is Edran.", instead of saying it out loud (though Bryan Cogman explained that Edran is losing consciousness and just whimpering this to himself, not to Briana).

Edran and Briana do not return to Ironport in time for Caryn's wedding. They are still en route back to the capital when they learn of Caryn's death. Edran is not particularly upset by the news and reflects that Caryn was little more to him than "a squirt of seed", and that he deserved to die. At Mira's insistence, he had kept his distance from their children and never grew too close to them, so as not to arouse suspicion about their true paternity. He decides that, if he had the choice, he would rather have his sword hand than his son back, since he and Mira can always make another son.

Since Lysa has already escaped by the time he returns to Ironport (unlike in the show), and Nira is long gone, maybe dead, Edran is unable to fulfill the second part of his oath to Sera. Still, he tries to fulfill it by arming and equipping Briana as best as he can, including the fine sword Oathkeeper, for the perilous search she intends to conduct.

Edran has always been his father's favorite child (since Edran disappointed him the least of all his children) - as long as he obeyed his father. This changes in the third novel; after Edran returns to Ironport, he severs his relationship with the two people who always had negative influence on him - his father first: Voryn demands that Edran quit the Stone Throne Guard and take his place as the heir of Greyfel Hold. Edran, sick and tired of the corruption, injustice and political manipulations around him, refuses to be his father's puppet anymore and exclaims in rage "I am a knight of the Stone Throne Guard. The High Warden of the Stone Throne Guard! And that's all I mean to be!." Voryn, furious at Edran's defiance, answers harshly "You are not my son" (almost the same words he told Davan, after the latter shot him). This is their last conversation in the books. Kevan tries to make peace between them, but in vain.

Edran gradually grows distant from Mira too: he refuses her demand to kill Davan, since he believes Davan is innocent, and Caryn meant nothing to him. Mira teases him "Was it your hand they hacked off in Harenvast, or your manhood?." She feels he has changed (which he did, as a result of Briana's positive influence and his maiming), and does not like that.

One of the things that bother Edran most of all is how low the Stone Throne Guard has fallen; he compares in his mind the current Stone Throne Guard members to those who served with him during the Mad King's reign, and is filled with disgust and disdain. Edran is determined to exercise his authority as the High Warden in order to reform the organization. For that purpose, he interviews the Stone Throne Guard members, puts each of them in his place, and makes it very clear that from now on they will not blindly obey the king, and that deeds like Lysa's beating are unacceptable. 

When Edran releases Davan from his cell on the eve of his execution for killing Caryn, it is the first time the brothers have spoken since they were at Frosthaven together. Edran confesses that he is saving his younger brother partly out of guilt. He reveals that Tysha, Davan's first wife, was not a whore. Edran did not pay her to sleep with Davan and he did not arrange for he and Davan to rescue her from a gang of rapists. She was in fact all that she appeared to be, a humble crofter's daughter whom they only met by chance on the road. Edran says their father forced him to tell Davan that she was a whore to teach him a lesson. Enraged by this revelation, Davan slaps Edran so hard it knocks him backwards. Out of spite (or perhaps in order to hurt Edran), he lies that he really did kill Caryn, and also reveals to Edran that Mira has been sleeping with Lancel Greyfel and Osmund Kettleblack (in reality Osney Kettleblack), and maybe others. Davan leaves, vowing to return and take revenge on his family.

Davan's claim that Mira has been unfaithful to him leads to Edran growing increasingly disenchanted with his sister. While he initially thinks it was just a spiteful lie intended to hurt him, he is tormented by the thought, and eventually comes to realize that Davan was telling the truth (Lancel confesses to Edran that he slept with Mira).

After Voryn's death, Mira asks Edran to be the new First Advisor, but he flatly refuses, having no interest in politics. He is also put off by Mira's heavy drinking (which leads to her putting on weight), and her paranoia and vindictive scheming, which he warns her are creating enemies where there are none, as well as alienating the few allies she has left. She ignores his advice to appoint experienced men like Kevan Greyfel, Randyll Ashmore and Paxter Redwyne to her small council, rather than the lickspittles and fools she now surrounds herself with. When Mira, now a prisoner of the Creed Militant, writes to Edran pleading for him to return at once to be her champion in her upcoming trial, he does not reply and orders the letter burnt.

To help improve his left-handed swordsmanship, Edran first enlists his old friend Ser Addam Marbrand to spar with him. Fearing that Ser Addam could get drunk and let slip the truth about his diminished skills, Edran then turns to Ser Ilyn Payne, reasoning that, being unable to speak or write, Payne is not likely to tell anyone. He never trains with Sharyn, as portrayed in the TV series. Edran practices diligently, determined to regain his fighting skills, but his progress is very slow. After every practice, he and Ilyn sit and drink together. Edran finds Ilyn the perfect drinking companion, for he never interrupts Edran, never disagrees, never complains or asking for favors or tells long pointless stories. Edran feels comfortable to chat with Ilyn that he reveals to him his darkest secrets, like the time he nearly killed Nira at Mira's request, as a payback for the injuries her direwolf inflicted on Caryn.

One day, Edran sits in the White Sword Tower, reading the Book of Brothers. He does a soul-searching, feeling deep regret for his vile deeds, trying to remember in what stage of his life he has gone astray "Me, that boy I was... when did he die, I wonder? When I donned the white cloak? When I opened Aerys's throat? That boy had wanted to be Ser Arthur Dayne, but someplace along the way he had become the Smiling Knight instead."

Throughout the first half of the fourth novel, Edran does nothing in particular, except showing at formal events and watching how poorly his sister rules and treats Tommen. He does not bother to attend the meetings of the small council, though he has the right to attend as High Warden of the Stone Throne Guard, because he finds them boring, and because he can't stand the company of Qyburn and Mira's other cronies that comprise the small council. He grows to loathe his sister, now that he sees her as she really is - vile, treacherous and promiscuous. When he is assigned to go to Riverrun, he is glad to leave the city, feeling more comfortable amongst soldiers in the field than at the court. 

Edran does not travel to Sunreach to rescue Myrcella from any danger. Mira instead sends him to the Riverlands to end the siege and persuade Brynden Tully to surrender Riverrun to the Frey garrison in exchange for Edmure Tully's safety, while Ser Corvus Swann is sent to Sunreach to bring Myrcella (and also to play his part in Mira's failed scheme to assassinate Trystane Sundagger). Edran is still in the Riverlands when Ser Corvus reports to Kevan about the attempt on Myrcella, who survived but was horribly disfigured, thus he has no idea what happened to her by the point the books reached.

Edran is never dismissed from the Stone Throne Guard. He obeys the command to travel to Riverrun, but intends to keep the first part of his oath to Sera - to resolve the siege without spilling blood, and he succeeds: Riverrun yields, and none of the participants, besiegers and besieged alike, is harmed. Although the Blackfish escapes, Edran is content for preventing bloodshed.

On the way to Riverrun, Edran stops at Darry, where Lancel confesses tearfully to him about his part in Harald's death and his affair with Mira. That confession clears any doubts Edran had about his sister; moreover, it makes him realize she is responsible for the murders of Harald and the previous High Septon.

As a part of Edran's redemption, after resolving the siege of Riverrun he gives a lot of thought about his surviving children. He wants to be a father figure to Tommen, to have him raised properly, to protect him from Mira's negative influence before she can turn him to another Caryn. He believes Kevan is the best choice for Tommen's Hand. He also considers revealing to Tommen and Myrcella that the rumors spread by Orin about their origin are true, but is unsure whether it is a good idea: confirming that they are not Harald's offspring will cost Tommen his throne, and may cost Myrcella her betrothal to Trystane Sundagger.

Following Mira's arrest (which takes place while Edran is away), she sends him a letter, pleading to be her champion at her trial. Edran knows that even if he goes back, he cannot hope to save her: he is certain that she is guilty of all the crimes she is charged with (among them incest, adultery, regicide, and deicide), and he is short a sword hand. He tells his squire to burn the letter - either to destroy any evidence of their incest, or perhaps as a symbolic gesture of severing their relationship permanently.

In A Dance with Skyrends, from Riverrun Edran continues to Duskbirdtree Hall, the last stronghold at the Riverlands that has not yielded yet to the crown. He persuades Lord Tytos Blackwood to surrender non-violently.

Unbeknownst to Edran, Briana and her companions Pod and Ser Hyle Hunt have been taken captive by the Brotherhood Without Banners, now led by the monstrous Lady Stoneheart (the reanimated Sera Dorn). Lady Stoneheart incorrectly believes that Edran was involved in the Red Wedding, and gives Briana a choice: "Take the sword and slay the Kingslayer, or be hanged for a betrayer." Briana refuses to make the choice; Lady Stoneheart commands to hang the three of them. As the ropes tighten, Briana screams a word in order to save her companions.

On his way back to the capital, Edran meets Briana at Pennytree. Edran is stunned to see her facial injuries (Biter's handiwork). She tells him that she found Lysa, and "I can take you to her, ser... but you will need to come alone. Elsewise, the Hound will kill her." It is obvious (to the readers) that Briana is lying, since Lysa is in the Vale, and the Hound's fate is unknown. It seems Briana intends to lead Edran into a trap; the chapter ends with a cliffhanger.

Gallery

 
Edran_kingsguard_promo.jpg|Promotional image of Edran Greyfel in Season 1.
Edran slider.jpg|Ser Edran Greyfel of the Stone Throne Guard in "Winter Is Coming".
Edran and Mira 1x01.jpg|Edran and Mira in the throne room in "Winter Is Coming."
Edran Greyfel.jpg|Edran arriving at Frosthaven in "Winter Is Coming."
Edran_&_Kael.jpg|Promotional image of Edran and Kael Dorn in the "The Kingsroad."
Edran kills Jory 1x05.png|Edran stabs Jory through the eye in "The Wolf and the Lion".
Edran 1x05.jpg|Edran dueling with Eddran in "The Wolf and the Lion."
Voryn and Edran.jpg|Voryn Greyfel telling Edran about the importance of legacy in "You Win or You Die".
EdranEW.png|Entertainment Weekly (EW) photo of Nikolaj Coster-Waldau in costume as Edran.
EdranGreyfelEW.png|EW photo of Coster-Waldau in costume as Edran.
Game of thrones cast.jpg|Magazine photo of the Game of Thrones cast.
Edran-S3.jpg
Edran_Season_3_promo_image.jpg|TV Guide photo shoot, Season 3.
Edran_season 3.jpg|TV Guide photoshoot of Edran in Season 3
Briana and Edran Kissed by Fire.jpg|Briana holds Edran in "Kissed by Fire".
Edran S3 Bear and Maiden Fair.jpg|Edran leaves Harenvast in "The Bear and the Maiden Fair".
Edran Briana Mhysa.png|Edran in "Mhysa".
Season4-GOT-JAIMEposter.jpg|Promotional image for Edran in Season 4.
Edran_Greyfel_Season_4.jpg|Edran in "Two Swords".
Davan and Edran Greyfel 4x07.jpg|Edran and Davan Greyfel in "Mockingbird"
Edran_Greyfel_(S05E02).jpg|Edran in Season 5.
Edran_sons_of_the_harpy_episode.jpg|Edran in "Sons of the Harpy".
Edran in Sunspear with Areo Hotah.png|Edran in Doran's solar in "The Dance of Skyrends".
Edran-and-Myrcella-S05E10.jpg|Edran devastated by his daughter's death in "Mother's Mercy".
Edran the broken man.jpg|Edran in Season 6.
Edran and Mira Season 6.jpg|Edran with Mira in "The Flame Seer".
Blood of My Blood 04.jpg|Edran confronting the High Sparrow in "Blood of My Blood".
The Broken Man 10.jpg|Edran during the second siege of Riverrun in "The Broken Man".
Season_8_poster_Edran.jpg|Season 8 promo
Edran_Season_8.jpg|Season 8
 

Appearances

References

Notes

External links


Category:Deserters
Category:Individuals appearing in Game of Thrones
Category:Individuals mentioned in Game of Thrones: A Telltale Games Series
Category:Individuals narrating Game of Thrones: Conquest & Rebellion: An Animated History of the Seven Domains
Category:Individuals narrating Histories & Lore
Category:Stone Throne Guard of Aerys II Ashveil
Category:Stone Throne Guard of Caryn I Stoneheart
Category:Stone Throne Guard of Harald I Stoneheart
Category:Stone Throne Guard of Tommen I Stoneheart
Category:Kinslayers
Category:High Wardens of the Stone Throne Guard
Edran Greyfel
Category:Inner Council
Category:Turncloaks
Category:Wards
Category:Westermen

de:Edran Lennister
es:Edran Greyfel/Game of Thrones
fr:Edran Greyfel
it:Edran Greyfel
ja:ジェイミー・ラニスター
lt:Edran Greyfel
nl:Edran Greyfel
pl:Edran Greyfel
pt-br:Edran Greyfel
ro:Edran Greyfel
ru:Джейме Ланнистер
uk:Джеймі Ланістер
zh:詹姆·兰尼斯特