{{Character

-----
Cousins raised as half-siblings: {Aldric Dorn} Lysa Dorn Nira Dorn Renn I the Broken {Torvin Dorn}


Kael Dorn, born Aegon Ashveil, is the son of Kira Dorn and Rhaegar Ashveil, the late Prince of Ashveil Isle. From infancy, Kael is presented as the bastard son of Lord Eddran Dorn, Kira's brother, and raised alongside Eddran's lawful children at Frosthaven. Kael's true parentage is kept secret from everyone, including Kael himself, in order to protect him from those that sought the complete annihilation of House Ashveil.

Kael joins the Veil Guard and is later elected as High Warden. As a result of several controversial decisions, such as allowing the wildlings to settle south of the Wall, Kael is murdered in a mutiny, but is resurrected by the red priestess Seraphel.

Freed from his Veil Guard vows, Kael and his half-sister Lysa Dorn retake Frosthaven from House Craven, restoring House Dorn's dominion over the North. Kael is declared King in the North.

Kael negotiates with Lyra Ashveil for an alliance against the Frost Wraiths in the imminent Great War. Later he pledges himself and his army to Lyra, with whom he falls in love, subsequently abdicating his throne and being named Warden of the North.File:Kael_renounce.jpg 

Later, Kael learns his true lineage from Beron Ashmore, revealing Lyra is his aunt. A dragonrider whose dragon was Rhaegal, he fights in the Battle of Frosthaven, during which the Pale Lord is defeated and the return of the Great Frost is prevented. Afterwards, Kael aids Lyra in her resumed campaign to take the Stone Throne and participates in the Battle of Ironport. However, when Lyra lays waste to a surrendered Ironport, Kael tries but is unable to dissuade her from more destruction and assassinates her to prevent further carnage.

Following a Great Council in the Skyrendpit, Kael is sent into exile, returning to the Veil Guard. He leads the remaining Free Clans to settle in the thawing free lands.

Biography

Background

Seventeen years before the War of the Five Kings, Rhaegar Ashveil allegedly abducted Kira Dorn in a scandal that led to the outbreak of Harald's Rebellion. Rhaegar eventually returned to fight in the war, but not before leaving Kira behind at the Tower of Joy, guarded by High Warden Gerold Hightower and Ser Arthur Dayne of the Stone Throne Guard. Eddran Dorn rode to war along with her betrothed, Harald Stoneheart, to rescue his sister and avenge the deaths of their father and brother at the orders of Aerys II, the Mad King.

Harald ultimately killed Rhaegar at the Battle of the Trident, effectively ensuring their victory in the war. After the Sack of Ironport, Eddran continued south in search of his sister and ultimately found her at the Tower of Joy in the Red Mountains at the border of Sunreach. Eddran and his companions engaged in a final fierce melee with the remaining Stone Throne Guard, which resulted in the deaths of all combatants save Eddran himself and Howland Reed.

After defeating the last of the Stone Throne Guard, Eddran rushed into the tower to save his sister - only to find Kira dying from childbirth, having just given birth to Rhaegar's own son. Desperate to protect the life of her newborn child, a fading Kira pleaded with Eddran to promise her that he would keep her son safe, and his true heritage hidden from Harald as he had been Rhaegar's most bitter enemy. Furthermore, the boy's existence was a potential threat to Harald's claim to the Stone Throne after the deaths of Rhaegar's other children, Rhaenys and Aegon, by his wife Elia Sundagger, who also perished, during the Sack of Ironport. In accordance with her last wish, Eddran resolved to pass Kira's son off as his own bastard and raise him in his home castle - a great blow to his honor as he knew that his decision would shame both himself and his wife, Sera Tully.

Rather than using his nephew's birth name of Aegon, which would have given away his real parentage, Eddran gave the baby the name "Kael" after his great friend and mentor Kael Arryn, Lord of the Vale, whom he loved like a second father. The boy also grew up using the surname "Snow", as is customary for acknowledged bastards in the North. In truth, however, "Kael" is not a bastard at all, as Rhaegar apparently had his marriage to Elia annulled and married Kira.

Kael spent the next seventeen years being raised in Frosthaven as Eddran's illegitimate son, alongside his trueborn children with his wife. Understandably, Eddran never told anyone, including Sera or Kael himself, who his mother was or even if she was still alive. When pressed by Harald, whom he couldn't deny an answer, Eddran vaguely claimed that Kael's mother was a lowborn woman named "Wylla" that he met during the war. Eddran never treated Kael much differently from his trueborn children.

Despite sharing a happy marriage, Kael's presence at Frosthaven would serve as a constant source of friction between Eddran and Sera. Sera never mistreated Kael, but she was cold towards him and avoided him whenever possible, viewing him only as a living reminder of the one time that Eddran had dishonored her. Sera would later confess to her daughter-in-law Talisa about how Kael caught the pox when he was a child, and she stayed with him through the night and prayed to the gods to let him live out of guilt for previously praying for his death, accepting that the boy was not to blame for her husband's sin, though it was still not enough to make her love Kael, something she would eventually come to regret.

Due to his bastard status, Kael grew up feeling like an outsider at Frosthaven. Although Eddran would see that he was well-treated, Kael's attendance at Frosthaven's more "formal" occasions was restricted and he would even be barred from sitting inside at the Lord's table with his family so as not to offend important guests. Otherwise, Kael still lived better than many bastard-born children and was well-raised by Eddran as his own. He was loved by his father and siblings, was never hungry or poor, lived in his father's castle, and had a noble's upbringing. Kael received a highborn education from Archivist Luwin and a young lord's martial training from Frosthaven's master-at-arms, Ser Rodrik Cassel.

Of the Dorn children, Kael was very close friends with Aldric - given that they were roughly the same age, being regular companions in training and riding. He was also close with both Renn and Torvin, and was friendly rival to Lord Eddran's ward, Talon Ironcoast. However, Kael's closest relationship was with Nira, who, as an adventurous tomboy prone to un-ladylike pursuits, also felt like a social outsider. In contrast, Kael's early relationship with Lysa was unpleasant; very much her mother's daughter, she was aloof and cold to him as well.

Game of Thrones: Season 1

Kael and Aldric instruct Renn in archery, when their father receives word about a captured deserter from the Veil Guard, for which the penalty is death. Kael accompanies his father, Aldric, Renn, Talon, Rodrik, and Jory Cassel, Rodrik's nephew. out to the holdfast where the deserter, Will, is being held. It is Renn's first time watching his father carry out an execution, but as the deserter is brought into position outside, Kael warns Renn not to look away, as their father will know. Kael praises Renn afterwards for keeping his composure. On their way back to Frosthaven, they find a dead direwolf - a species not seen south of the Wall in centuries - and her newborn pups.

Kael talks Eddran into allowing the young Dorns to adopt them, pointing out that a direwolf is the sigil of House Dorn: given that there are five direwolves and five trueborn Dorn children, it must be a sign that the Dorn children are meant to have the pups. In order to make this point, Kael intentionally leaves himself out of the count of Dorn children, and when Renn asks about this, Kael responds that he is not a Dorn. Just as they are about to leave, however, he finds the runt of the litter, an albino, which crawled away from its mother's corpse. Talon remarks, "The runt of the litter, that one's yours, Snow." Kael takes this direwolf as his own, naming him Ghost.

Sera ensures that Kael, Aldric, and Talon are groomed for the arrival of Harald and Queen Mira Greyfel. Kael, in particular, is set against the altering of his appearance, as well as expressing antipathy against the royal family. When the Stoneheart entourage arrives, Kael is present, but is not allowed to attend the subsequent banquet for fear of offending the royal guests (on Sera's suggestion). He waits outside in the courtyard venting his frustrations against a practice dummy. When Kael's uncle, Benjen Dorn, arrives, Kael tells him he has been thinking about it, and before his father leaves for the south he wants to join the Veil Guard.

Since they don't care about recruits' pasts and even a bastard can rise to positions of high honor in it, the Watch provides an easy escape from his life in Frosthaven. He later meets Davan Greyfel. As a dwarf, Davan knows what it is like to be an outcast, so he gives the young man some advice: never try to hide what he is, for the world will not forget. Instead, he should wear the name "bastard" openly, like armor, and then it can never be used to hurt him. When Kael angrily asks Davan what he knows about it, Davan replies that "all dwarfs are bastards in their father's eyes."

Before departing, Kael has a run-in with Edran Greyfel, who infamously killed his grandfather, the Mad King. Edran sarcastically thanks him for protecting all of them from the mythical monsters that allegedly exist beyond the Wall, in order to taunt him. Before Kael departs for the Wall, he says goodbye to the unconscious Renn, who has been injured in a fall. He gives Nira a sword named Needle that he had made especially for her, advising her to "stick them with the pointy end." Kael says he will miss her, and they both hug.

As he prepares his saddle, Aldric asks if Kael said goodbye to Renn and is sure Renn will survive. Kael says Dorns are hard to kill, and Aldric asks about his mother, and Kael assures him she was kind. Aldric offers to visit him at the Wall sometime, and they bid farewell with a hug. At their parting on the Kingsroad, Eddran vows to tell Kael the truth about his mother the next time they meet. Kael is accompanied by his uncle Benjen and Davan, who has expressed a desire to see the Wall (and urinate from the top of it) before he dies. Ghost also accompanies Kael to the Wall.

At Castle Black, Kael's expectations of the Veil Guard are soon disappointed. Instead of a brotherhood of noble warriors sworn to defend the realm from wildlings and Frost Wraiths, he realizes the Watch is a dumping ground for criminals and wastrels. He earns the enmity of Ser Alliser Thorne, the master-at-arms in charge of training new recruits. He humiliates his fellow recruits with his superior fighting skills, learned from Frosthaven's master-at-arms over the course of many years.

Benjen stands with Kael on his first watch and tells him that he is going ranging North of the Wall. Kael is keen to accompany him, but Benjen insists that he complete his training. Davan helps Kael see that he is no better than the recruits, but has been afforded more advantages than them due to his highborn upbringing. Kael offers to train some of his new brothers and Pypar and Grenn accept. He also befriends the fat and bookish coward Beron Ashmore when he arrives at Castle Black, and helps to protect him from the cruelty of Thorne. Thorne angrily tells Kael that going easy on Beron won't help him, and will risk getting him killed during the next winter.

After completing his training, Kael is inducted into the Veil Guard and swears his oath before a weirwood Heart tree on the north side of the Wall. He is assigned to the stewards rather than the rangers, and at first, thinks it is due to his ongoing feud with Thorne. However, Beron points out that High Warden Jeor Steelbear has asked for Kael as his personal steward, and may be grooming him for command. Kael is concerned when Benjen's horse returns to the Wall riderless. Later, Ghost finds the corpses of two rangers assigned to Benjen, Othor and Jafer Flowers. Learning of Eddran's imprisonment, Thorne taunts Kael about being a traitor's bastard, causing Kael to draw a knife in anger. He is restricted to quarters.

Later, Othor's corpse becomes a wight and attacks Steelbear. Kael saves Steelbear's life by burning the wight, earning a pardon for his earlier misdemeanor. Steelbear also gives Kael his Embersteel sword, Longclaw - given that his own son Coran fled into exile and left it behind. Kael ponders abandoning the Watch to join Aldric's army when it marches against the Greyfels, but Aemon tells him that he chose to stay with the Watch when he was similarly tested - as he is secretly a long-forgotten great uncle of the Mad King, and was once known as Aemon Ashveil, but his entire family was killed at the end of Harald's Rebellion.

News of Eddran's execution reach Castle Black. Kael immediately leaves, meaning to join Aldric and seek vengeance for his father's death. Beron, Pypar, and Grenn intercept him and convince him to stay. Steelbear tells Kael their war against the Frost Wraiths is more important than the game of thrones in Ironport. He tells Kael that the Watch is marching beyond the Wall in force, to find Benjen and learn the truth about the threat. Kael swears to him not to attempt to desert again and accompanies the troops as they set out.

Game of Thrones: Season 2

Steelbear prepares Kael for a command role as the great ranging travels North seeking Benjen and an explanation for the wight attack. They pass through several abandoned wildling villages before arriving at the home of their unsavory ally Craster.

Kael is perplexed when he learns that Craster incestuously marries his own daughters, but apparently has no sons. He takes an instant dislike to Craster when they meet with him. Craster reveals to Jeor that he has not seen Benjen, and that the wildlings are gathering with their leader, King-Beyond-the-Wall Mance Rayder. Jeor reprimands Kael for failing to follow his lead with Craster - the man disgusts him as well, but unfortunately, he's one of the few wildlings who is willing to give them shelter and supplies which mean the difference between life and death for many black brothers in the wild.

Beron appeals to Kael to aid Craster's pregnant daughter-wife Gilly. She is afraid of having a son, but will not say why. Kael is frustrated and refuses to disobey Jeor's order to leave Craster's wives alone. Kael sees Craster carrying a newborn into the woods and follows him. He sees Craster leave the child for a Frost Wraith but does not recognize the creature hidden in the shadows. Craster spots him and knocks him out. Craster disarms Kael and drags him back to his keep. He expels the rangers from his home. Jeor reveals that he knew that Craster was sacrificing his sons, but chose to ignore it because of his usefulness as an ally of the Veil Guard.

The rangers reach the ancient fortified peak known as the Fist of the First Men and await Qhorin and his party from the Shadow Tower. When Qhorin arrives, he suggests altering their tactics and using small groups to overcome Mance's lookouts in the Skirling Pass. Kael asks to join Qhorin's raiders and Jeor lets him go.

Qhorin leads his men into the pass, and they locate and ambush the wildling watchers. Kael realizes his opponent is a young woman and hesitates to kill her. She introduces herself as Kira Freeborn, but does not give away details of Mance's plans. Qhorin leaves Kael alone to execute Kira Freeborn. Kael is unable to do it and she escapes. He pursues and recaptures her, but they become separated from Qhorin's group. Kael decides they cannot regroup with Qhorin due to the approaching night. Kira Freeborn convinces Kael to sleep next to her to share body heat and keep warm, and then makes sexual advances towards him. Kael rejects the temptation to break his oath.

Kael unties Kira Freeborn's legs, while keeping her hands bound, as he continues his search for the rest of the raiders. She tells him that she knows that he is a virgin. As they walk, Kira Freeborn questions Kael as to why the men of the Veil Guard hate the wildlings. She explains that both the Free Clans and the Northmen like the Dorns are descendants of the First Men, and the wildlings just happened to be on the wrong side of the Wall when it was built. She urges him to forget about his oath and live free. Another sexual advance from Kira Freeborn prompts him to reach for his sword. She backs away and trips him with the rope, when he is caught off guard.

He pursues her but is ambushed and taken captive. Kira Freeborn tells him that he should have taken her when he had the chance. Kira Freeborn brings Kael to the Lord of Bones, and convinces him that Mance will want to question Kael. The Lord of Bones has a prisoner of his own; Qhorin. The Halfhand tells Kael that the rest of the men were killed while they searched for him. He urges Kael to make their deaths meaningful and become a spy within the wildling ranks. He then feigns anger with Kael until he is restrained after managing to knock Kael over.

In Frosthaven, after Talon betrays House Dorn and takes the castle, he refuses to flee and join the Veil Guard when he is surrounded by Sable Snow's men, claiming that Kael will likely kill him for betraying the Dorns and apparently burning Renn and Torvin alive (in actuality, Talon faked their deaths).

As they make their way to Mance, Kira Freeborn continues to playfully mock Kael by tapping him on the head with the flat of Longclaw. Qhorin uses the distraction to advance his plan to portray Kael as a traitor to the Veil Guard. He attacks Kael, and the Lord of Bones allows them to fight. Kael is initially reluctant until Qhorin calls his "father" a traitor and his mother a whore. Kael slays Qhorin, who whispers a line from the Veil Guard oath to Kael with his dying breath, stunning Kira Freeborn and the rest of the band. Kael's hands are freed, and Kira Freeborn leads him to the crest of the mountain to look over the massive wildling encampment.

Game of Thrones: Season 3

As Kael is led by Kira Freeborn and the Lord of Bones into the main wildling camp in the Frostfang mountains, he discovers that almost all of wildling society is on the move to escape the Frost Wraiths, including the women and children. As they enter the camp, Kael is shocked to see a real-life giant walk past. Many of the wildlings are surprised to see Kael in his all-black Veil Guard clothing and shout "crow!" at his approach. Several young boys pelt Kael with ice and small stones but Kira Freeborn shoos them away.

Kael is led into the tent of the King-Beyond-the-Wall, Mance Rayder, where the Lord of Bones explains that he is Eddran Dorn's bastard son to a large man with a heavy beard who is eating chicken by the fire. He says he doesn't care, but his interest is piqued on hearing that Kael killed Qhorin Halfhand. As they talk Kael kneels before the man, whom he assumes to be Mance Rayder, and calls him "your Grace." This causes all of the wildlings to burst out laughing. As it turns out this isn't Mance, but his lieutenant Grunn Ironjaw. The real Mance is an unassuming man sitting in a corner, who then introduces himself and tells Kael to stand, as no man kneels before another among the Free Clans, since they do not recognize a class of nobility in their culture.

Mance says he is glad that Kael killed Qhorin, as he had killed many of Mance's wildlings. Mance asks Kael why he wants to join them and he replies he wants to be free, but Mance doesn't believe this. Kael then explains that when the Veil Guard camped at Craster's Keep, he saw Craster leave his newborn son in the woods as an offering, and the inhuman creature that took it. Kael says that he wants to leave the Veil Guard, because he is disgusted that Steelbear already knew what Craster was doing but did nothing to stop it. Kael states that the First Men he is descended from defeated the Frost Wraiths once during the Great Frost, and that now he wants "to fight for the side who fights for the living." Mance is satisfied and advises Kael to get a new cloak, his black one clearly attracting malignity.

Kael then marches south with the Free Clans army. Mance explains that his army is a diverse force, formed of about ninety different groups or clans of wildlings, who speak seven different languages, and have numerous internal rivalries. However, he managed to unite them all by telling them the truth: that they will all die if they remain north of the Wall. Mance brings Kael to one of his scouts, Orell. He is sitting silently with his eyes rolled back as an eagle circles above him. Mance says that he is a "warg."

Kael learns a warg is a person who is capable of entering the mind of an animal, seeing what it sees and even controlling its actions. Orell controls his eagle to scout miles ahead. Mance asks him what he has seen, and Orell says he saw the Fist of the First Men - and many dead "crows."

As Kael and the Free Clans arrive at the Fist of the First Men, they survey the bloody aftermath of the assault on the Veil Guard by the Frost Wraiths and their army of undead wights. However, they only find corpses of horses and no human remains. Kael says that there were three hundred men of the Veil Guard at the Fist, and asks Mance if Steelbear could still be alive. Mance says that with Steelbear, it's possible he was able to escape, but that even if he did he and his men took quite a beating and are trapped miles away from the Wall with the Frost Wraiths in close pursuit. Mance warns Kael that all of the missing corpses from the Fist are no longer his friends and brothers from the Veil Guard, but have been resurrected as undead monsters who serve the Frost Wraiths. Kael reluctantly agrees.

Mance orders Grunn to take a force of twenty men to scale the Wall to attack Castle Black from its exposed rear. Mance's plan is for Grunn's small band to distract Castle Black by attacking their exposed southern side, at which point Mance's main army will assault it from the north. Grunn will know that Mance is in position when his army makes a massive signal fire. Mance orders Grunn to take Kael with him, as Kael knows the layout of Castle Black, and it will prove a key test of his loyalty: if it turns out that he won't really betray the Veil Guard, Grunn can easily throw him off the Wall to his death.

On their way to the Wall and Castle Black, Kael and Kira Freeborn are gathering firewood, when the warg Orell asks him about the defenses of the Veil Guard. Orell has seen through the eyes of his eagle that there are patrols on top of the Wall and he wants to know how frequent they are. Kael says they usually sent out patrols in teams of four, two builders to inspect for structural damage and two rangers to protect them, but that the frequency of their patrols often changes. Orell says the wildlings know there are nineteen castles along the south side of the Wall, but he wants to know how many are currently manned.

Kael finds this very unpleasant, but reluctantly says that only three are currently manned. Apart from Castle Black, there is also Eastwatch-by-the-Sea at the extreme eastern end, and the Shadow Tower at the western end. Kael is then asked how many men currently garrison Castle Black. Kael is very reluctant to answer, but after being threatened by Orell, he gives an exaggerated number, saying there are one thousand men (this is a lie, as Castle Black only had six hundred men before the great ranging, and the garrison now is closer to three hundred). Grunn tells Kael that he likes him, but if he is lying to them, he will rip his guts out through his throat. Despite this, Kael remains steadfast to the lie.

Kael and Kira Freeborn then walk away, but she steals his sword Longclaw, making him chase her to get it back. She leads him into a nearby cave. Kira Freeborn starts disrobing, and says that she wants to make sure Kael has truly come over to the wildlings' side and broken his Veil Guard vows - by making him break his oath of celibacy with her. She quickly shucks off all of her clothes and walks up to him naked. Kael is very hesitant at first, but they soon end up having sex in the cave. Afterwards, Kael and Kira Freeborn lay together in a naked embrace, and Kira Freeborn tells Kael she wishes they could stay in this cave forever.

He joins a wildling party led by Grunn Ironjaw to climb the Wall. Beforehand, he is questioned by Kira Freeborn about their relationship and his allegiance to the Veil Guard, saying that he must be loyal to her instead. During the climb, Kira Freeborn causes part of the ice to break, leaving them hanging in the air by the rope. Orell, believing them to be lost, cuts it. Kael manages to save himself and Kira Freeborn by climbing back to the ice. The two return to the climb and reach the top, where Kira Freeborn gazes at the north side and the south side, before they kiss.

After surviving the perilous climb of the Wall, Kael, Kira Freeborn and the wildlings led by Grunn Ironjaw advance through the Gift - the strip of land immediately south of the Wall which the Watch draws supplies from - and continue on towards Castle Black, to await Mance Rayder's signal to begin the attack. Afterwards, Kael confronts Orell about cutting his and Kira Freeborn's rope loose on the Wall, nearly killing both of them in the process. Orell tells Kael that he doesn't see Kira Freeborn complaining about what happened, because she is a wildling and understood what needed to be done in a pressure situation, also telling Kael that this is the reason he will never be able to keep her.

During the journey through the woods, a jealous Orell confronts Kira Freeborn and says that he would be a better man for her than Kael, while continuing to express his distrust in him. Later, Kael tries to persuade Kira Freeborn that the wildlings can't win an attack against the realms but she refuses to listen and points out that Kael is now one of them; if it fails, so does he. She restates her passion for him and tells him bluntly that if they die, they die, but before they die, they will live.

Kael and the wildling party prepare to raid an elderly horse breeder's home for his horses and gold; Kael insists that the old man is no threat to them, but Orell and Grunn Ironjaw intend to kill the man so as to stop him from alerting the Veil Guard to their presence. However, when the party attacks the farmstead, Kael surreptitiously hits a rock with his sword, alerting the old man who flees; Kael also distracts Kira Freeborn when she tries to shoot the fleeing man with an arrow. Outside, Grunn moves to kill the old man, but Orell tells him to have Kael do it instead to prove his loyalty. Kael is ultimately unable to kill the innocent man, and instead, Kira Freeborn kills the man with an arrow.

Realizing that Kael is still loyal to the Veil Guard, Grunn orders his men to kill Kael; Grunn restrains Kira Freeborn to stop her trying to help Kael, and soon after Kael battles with Orell. In the nearby Queenscrown, a hidden Renn enters the mind of Summer to aid Kael. as he battles to the death with Orell and finally kills him. With the last of his strength Orell wargs into the mind of his pet eagle, which swoops down and attacks Kael, clawing him badly about the face before he fights the bird off. Kael then steals a horse and escapes, leaving a heartbroken Kira Freeborn and heading back to the Wall.

Stopping to rest and tend to his injury, Kael is confronted by a furious Kira Freeborn, who has an arrow ready to shoot him. Kael tries to talk Kira Freeborn out of shooting him, insisting that he still loves her. Though his feelings are clearly reciprocated Kira Freeborn is still angered by his betrayal and shoots Kael three times with her bow as he flees from her. Kael is badly injured, but his horse manages to carry him the rest of the way to Castle Black, as he hovers in and out of consciousness. Having reached safety, Kael is brought inside the castle by the guards, where he encounters Beron and Pypar, who are overjoyed to see him and insist that his injuries be taken care of.

Game of Thrones: Season 4

Kael survives the injuries inflicted by Kira Freeborn and has largely recovered, though he still grimaces while getting dressed. At some point, Kael has been told about his half-brother Aldric's death at the Red Wedding and wanting vengeance for his family, but decides to stay at the wall. He shares with Beron that he had always been jealous of Aldric for having more of their father's affection and for being better than him at riding, fighting, and winning the affection of other girls. Still, he says he could never bring himself to hate Aldric, as he was also always a good friend and honorable person. Beron responds by saying he has felt the same way about Kael, that Kael is better than him at everything (except reading).

It turns out that Beron had been sent to retrieve Kael, who has been summoned to testify before a panel of five sworn brothers, including Archivist Aemon, acting High Warden Alliser Thorne, and Janos Slynt (who was exiled to the Wall by Davan). At the hearing, Kael admits to killing Qhorin, living amongst the wildlings, and sleeping with one. He also states that Mance intends to attack and gives intel on his plans and strength. Both Slynt and Thorne are openly hostile to Kael, disbelieving much of what he says and call for his execution. Aemon, however, realizes that Kael is speaking the truth, and the hearing ends with Kael being allowed to keep his head.

Meanwhile, at the Dreadfort, when Talon is pressed by Aldric Craven for information on the whereabouts of Renn and Torvin, he reluctantly guesses that they may try to head to Kael at Castle Black. At Sable's suggestion, Kael becomes a target of the Cravens, since Sable reasons that even though Kael may be a bastard, he is still a son of Eddran Dorn, and may pose a threat to the Cravens' future hold on the North, either because the Northerners who are still furious at the Cravens for betraying the Dorns may rally behind him even though he is a bastard in the Veil Guard, or because Kael may simply seek revenge on both Aldric and Sable for their role in the Dorns' downfall at Red Wedding. Aldric subsequently sends his hunter, Locke, to the Wall in order to infiltrate the Watch, use Kael to find Renn and Torvin and then kill them all, promising a lordship as a reward.

The orphan Olly then arrives at Castle Black, telling them how the wildling raiding parties south of the Wall killed his entire village. Thorne asks for Kael's opinion on protecting the smallfolk living in the Gift, thinking Kael will disagree with his decision not to send help. Instead, Kael regretfully says that he knows from his time with the wildlings that this exactly what they want - to lure as many of them out of Castle Black as possible to weaken its defenses for the massive attack about to come from the north side of the Wall, which would allow them to move over a thousand miles southward before they reached an army that could stop them.

Therefore, Kael agrees with Thorne that they should do nothing, and concentrate every available man in Castle Black itself to brace for the assault. They are interrupted by a single horn blast, revealed to be Grenn and Edd, who have escaped the mutineers at Craster's Keep. Kael is relieved to see them alive, but his relief turns to concern when they reveal that the mutineers remain entrenched at the keep. Kael understands that if the mutineers are captured by Mance Rayder, then the wildlings will know how vulnerable Castle Black really is. Kael tries to convince Thorne that eliminating the mutineers should be their top priority.

Kael and Grenn are training the new recruits, one of which is Locke, to fight wildlings. The training session is interrupted by Thorne who continues to talk down to Kael and reminds him that he is a steward. Locke approaches Kael and they get acquainted, with Kael unaware of Locke's true purpose. Kael and Beron are talking about Renn going beyond the Wall. Kael is worried for Renn and once he realizes that he could be at Craster's Keep, Locke comes in to tell him that Thorne has summoned him. Thorne gives him permission to attack Craster's Keep, but only with volunteers; Slynt convinced Thorne that Kael questioning his decisions is a problem, and if Kael gets himself killed on a dangerous mission he volunteered for (knowing the risks), it will both remove him and be his own fault; alternatively, if he succeeds and returns alive, so much the better.

Kael gives a speech about avenging Steelbear's death at the hands of the mutineers and this convinces a number of his brothers to join him in his attack, including Grenn, Edd, and Locke (who secretly intends to kill Kael during the mission and blame it on the mutineers).

The group attacks at night, taking the mutineers by surprise. Kael personally enters the main building to deal with Karl Tanner. The two of them are evenly matched, though Karl manages to get the upper hand by spitting in Kael's face and then kicking him to the floor. Before he can land the finishing blow, Karl is stabbed in the back by Sissy. Karl attempts to kill her, though it's a fatal mistake as Kael doesn't miss the opportunity to thrust Longclaw through the back of Karl's head and out of his mouth.

After the fight, Kael and the others count five dead amongst the Watch, including Locke, whose neck was snapped in a way that terrifies Kael (Kael being completely unaware that Locke had been killed by a Renn-possessed Borran). He then reunites with Ghost, before turning to Craster's wives and offering them refuge at Castle Black. They decline, saying that after the abuse they took at other members of the Veil Guard they can't trust them and will go their own way. Before leaving, they set a torch to Craster's Keep, burning it to the ground.

Kael and his fellow black brothers return to Castle Black, much to the annoyance of Thorne and Slynt. Once Alliser spots Ghost, he orders Kael to lock up Ghost or his direwolf will become food for the Veil Guard. Later, Kael reports that Mance Rayder's army was closing in on Craster's Keep and will reach the Wall before the next full moon. Kael states that defending the tunnel is hopeless since the gates will not stop the giants in Mance Rayder's army. He proposes they seal the tunnel, but Alliser Thorne refuses to listen. Alliser then assigns Kael and Beron to night duties atop the Wall until the next new moon.

News of the wildling attack on Mole's Town, the largest village in the Gift, reaches Castle Black. Kael, Pypar, and Eddison Tollett try to comfort a distraught Beron, who believes that Gilly and her baby are dead. Grenn is furious that the wildlings slaughtered the inhabitants of Mole's Town, which included brothers of the Veil Guard. Kael concludes that if Mole's Town has been attacked, then Mance Rayder's assault on Castle Black is imminent.

Atop the Wall, Kael and Beron are staring out into the darkness of the north and awaiting the imminent wildling invasion. Beron attempts to interrogate Kael about what it was like to be with a woman, stating that as their deaths are likely imminent, it may be his last chance to find out. Beron brings up that the vows of the Veil Guard only explicitly forbid members from taking wives or producing children, and that other "activities" are open to interpretation. Kael replies glumly that Alliser most likely does not care about their interpretations. When further pressed by Beron to describe lying down with Kira Freeborn, Kael attempts to explain but is unable to properly express it, proclaiming exasperatedly that he is "not a bleeding poet." Kael offers to take the watch up alone so Beron can go below.

Later that night, Kael hears the horn blowing and looks north, witnessing a tremendous conflagration north of the Wall, just as Mance had promised him. Kael approaches Thorne, who finally relents and admits that they should have heeded his advice and sealed the tunnel, but grimly muses that leadership means not second-guessing oneself because of "clever little twats" like him. While they start to prepare for the massive wildling army that is emerging from the woods, another horn blows from down below at Castle Black, signaling the unanticipated appearance of Grunn's band of wildlings at Castle Black.

Alliser decides to go down and defend the keep, leaving Slynt in charge of the Wall's defenses. Even though a wildling strike force led by two giants, one of which is riding a mammoth, charge towards Castle Black's outer gate, Slynt does nothing and breaks down, demoralizing the troops. Grenn steps in by falsely claiming that Alliser needs Janos back down in Castle Black, allowing Kael to take command of the Wall's defenses, silently thanking Grenn. The black brothers continue to rain down arrows on the advancing wildlings, even killing ones that are attempting to scale the Wall.

Dongo, armed with a massive bow, manages to fire a huge arrow at one of the bunkers atop the Wall, and Kael is unable to warn his brothers fast enough before the giant fires again, violently killing one of his black brothers. Although Kael manages to repel most of the wildlings attacking the outer gate, including the mammoth, one giant manages to single-handedly lift the gate. Kael, knowing the inner gate won't hold against him, sends a group of black brothers led by Grenn to hold it at any cost. Kael decides to give Edd control of the top of the Wall, and tasks Beron with releasing Ghost from his pen to assist in the fighting, then orders half a dozen other men to descend with him and finally enter the fray.

Kael quickly dispatches many wildlings with Longclaw, catching the attention of Styr, Magnar of the Thenns, and so the two meet in single combat. Styr eventually gets the upper hand by knocking Longclaw away, then Kael disarms Styr of his axe using some chains, and the fighting goes hand to hand. Styr brutally smashes his face into an anvil and tosses him into the blacksmith's forge. However, when Styr picks Kael up and begins to strangle him, Kael spits blood in Styr's face, distracting him long enough for him to grab the blacksmith's hammer lying next to him and bury it into Styr's skull.

Upon killing him, Kael turns around to find Kira Freeborn pointing her bow at him with an arrow drawn. He smiles at her, causing her to hesitate. Before either can say anything, Kira Freeborn is shot through the heart by Olly. Kael holds her in his arms as she tells him that they should have never left the cave, and they lament circumstances that prevented them from being together as she succumbs to her wound.

Later, while Edd forces the wildling army to retreat for the night, down below Kael deals with a heavily wounded Grunn, who continues to fight despite being the only wildling left alive in the castle. Kael subdues him with a crossbow and orders his brothers to take him prisoner and interrogate him. The following morning, Kael discusses with Beron his suicidal solution to end the wildling threat: he plans to assassinate Mance Rayder, noting that he is the only thing binding the disparate wildling clans that make up the army, and his death will rob them of that purpose and leadership.

Beron tries to stop him, but to no avail. As Kael prepares to leave via Castle Black's tunnel, they discover the bodies of the black brothers who held the inner gate against the giant. Grenn is amongst the casualties, and Kael tells Beron that all bodies must be burned. Before Kael leaves, he remembers the promise he made to Jeor Steelbear and decides to leave Longclaw with Beron. Beron tells Kael to come back, and Kael looks and Beron and gives him an unsure smile before stepping out into the wilderness on the other side of the gate. Kael finds Mance in a wildling camp north of the Wall, and claims he wants to negotiate with him.

Despite Mance expressing disappointment at Kael's betrayal, they drink a toast to some of their fallen friends, such as Grenn, Kira Freeborn, and Mag the giant. Mance then notices that Kael is eyeing a cooking knife, and quickly deduces that Kael came to parley with Mance simply so he could assassinate him. Before anyone can make a move, they are interrupted by the sound of war horns. Outside, hundreds of mounted knights led by Orin Stoneheart and Maron Saltbane arrives and slaughter many of the wildlings, scattering the rest.

Kael introduces himself to Orin as Eddran Dorn's son, and suggests that Orin arrest Mance instead of executing him, reasoning that Mance had the chance to kill him, but chose not to. Out of respect for Eddran, Orin accepts, and Kael also advises Orin to burn the bodies of the dead in order to prevent them from returning as wights. During the funeral, Kael notices Seraphel staring at him through the flames. Later, Kael visits Grunn, who tells Kael that Kira Freeborn truly loved him, and asks him to lay Kira Freeborn to rest north of the Wall. Kael later takes his love's body into the woods and burns it, weeping as he walks away.

Game of Thrones: Season 5

Kael spars with Olly, along with other new recruits before being summoned by Seraphel to see Orin atop the Wall. He questions the Red Woman if she is cold, as she is dressed in unusually light clothing for the local climate, but she states that "the Lord's fire" lives within her. Seraphel asks if Kael is a virgin. Kael replies he is not, which she approves. Kael meets with Orin and Maron, kneeling before the king. With Aldric Craven ruling Frosthaven, Orin asks Kael if he wants to avenge his fallen half-brother.

Kael reaffirms that he is a sworn brother of the Veil Guard. Maron states that his loyalty to the Watch is considered dubious because of his time spent with the wildlings. Nevertheless, Orin wants Kael to retake the North with the help of the wildlings, stating that he will pardon them and declare them citizens of the realm once the war is won. Orin will give the wildlings their lives and freedom if Mance bends the knee and swears his loyalty. He gives Kael until nightfall to convince Mance, or the King-Beyond-the-Wall will be burned as a sacrifice to the Lord of Radiance.

Kael does his best to convince Mance to save his life as well as all the wildlings, but fails: the wildlings only follow him because he kneels to no one, so if he did kneel to Orin, they would lose all respect for him and ignore his commands anyway, so he might as well die with his honor intact by refusing. As Mance is led to the pyre, Orin gives him one last chance to save his life. Mance politely refuses and is led to the stake and Seraphel lights the pyre. Unable to watch Mance suffer, Kael storms off. Just as the fire begins to fully consume Mance, he is mercifully shot through the heart with an arrow by Kael.

Orin and Maron summon Kael to discuss his future. Orin shows him a letter delivered by messenger-raven from Kira Steelbear saying she would only pledge her House to a member of House Dorn. Orin offers a simple solution: as king, he will officially legitimize Kael and make him Lord of Frosthaven. Later that day, the choosing for the new High Warden of the Veil Guard has begun, and many brothers of the Veil Guard have assembled to vote for either Thorne (who is fervently supported by Janos) or Ser Denys Mallister commander of the Shadow Tower.

After hearing from Kael that he intends to refuse Orin's offer and stay true to his vows, Beron nominates Kael as the third candidate and recounts how he took command of the defense of Castle Black (including the fact that Thorne fought bravely and Slynt was cowering in the pantry with Gilly) and was willing to sacrifice himself to stop Mance. With the votes cast, Aemon and his aide tally the tokens and a tie is declared between Kael and Thorne. Aemon feels around in his hands for his voting chip and produces a circle token and adds it to Kael's stack amidst cheers and laughter, as Kael has been chosen as the 998th High Warden of the Veil Guard.

Kael is approached by Orin and Maron about the offer of legitimization. As the new High Warden, Kael reminds the king that his place is with the Veil Guard, even though his dream was to be a Dorn. Orin, a man of duty, respects his decision to keep his vow and tells Kael he intends to march on Frosthaven within a fortnight since the Veil Guard cannot afford to feed both his army and the wildling prisoners. He also recommends sending Thorne to command Eastwatch-by-the-Sea], and that executing the wildling prisoners would be the safest choice. Orin then leaves, but Maron stays behind and tries to further persuade Kael to help Orin retake the North. Maron iterates that the Veil Guard is "the shield that guards the realms of men", telling Kael that it may not just mean protecting the Seven Domains from beyond the Wall, but possibly taking part in battles in order to prevent the Seven Domains from suffering, such as the North will under Craven rule.

During Kael's first general meeting of the garrison in the main hall as High Warden, he starts with some levity by assigning a black brother to oversee the digging of a new latrine pit. He also acknowledges Ser Alliser Thorne as an experienced and valuable member of the Veil Guard by naming him First Ranger. Kael then orders Slynt to man and repair Greyguard, a ruined castle. Janos refuses to obey and Kael reminds him that this is a direct order. Janos then refuses him a third time and Kael asks Janos if he's refusing to obey the order. Janos publicly insults him, telling Kael, "You can stick your order up your bastard ass." Kael orders Janos to be taken outside, and calls for Olly to fetch him Longclaw, while Janos insists Kael is mistaken if he thinks he can frighten him.

Obedience to the laws of his "father" - that the man who passes the sentence must swing the sword - Kael makes ready to personally behead Janos. While on the chopping block, Janos begins to plead for mercy. After a moment of hesitation, Kael executes the cowardly former Commander of the City Watch with a single blow. From across the courtyard, Orin sees Kael behead Janos for refusing his orders, and slightly nods in approval.

Kael continues to train new recruits, with Orin, Selyse, Shireen, and Seraphel observing him, with Orin implying that he does not believe Kael to be Eddran's bastard son - saying that Eddran was always an honorable man and it wasn't in his character to randomly have sex with some tavern whore. Later, Beron presents him with requests to the Northern Lords for men for the Veil Guard.

He is reluctant to send one to Aldric Craven, his brother's killer, until Beron convinces him that they must stay neutral and ask for as many men as they can for the Watch, and right now the Cravens rule the North and have the most men - leading Kael to sign the request angrily. Seraphel enters his office and again tries to persuade him to chase the rats out of his home, but he claims that Castle Black is now his home. She attempts to seduce him, sensing a power inside his blood, but Kael rebuffs her, remembering his love for Kira Freeborn. As Seraphel leaves, she tells him, "You know nothing, Kael Dorn."

Later on, Kael consults Aemon for advice on a hard decision he is about to make, noting that half the men in the Veil Guard despise him for his sympathy for the wildlings, but Aemon tells him to "Kill the boy, and let the man be born," in other words, just make the hard choice and do what he believes is best. Indeed, Kael's plan is to allow the wildlings to pass the Wall and settle in the North as subjects of the Seven Domains or even let them join the Watch. Kael's idea is met with harsh criticism, even from his closest friends such as Edd and Olly, but Kael's goal is actually to keep the wildlings from falling into the hands of the coming Frost Wraith army. Kael points out that every single wildling left on the north side of the Wall will be killed, then resurrected and added to the Frost Wraiths ever-growing army of the undead.

Kael speaks alone with Grunn, who reveals that the remainder of Mance's army probably fled back to Hardhome, a large fishing village on the coast. Kael requests that Grunn go there and negotiate with the remaining wildling chieftains, to let them pass through the Wall on Kael's terms. Grunn agrees, so long as Kael accompanies him so that the wildlings will know it is not a trap. Kael borrows several of Orin's ships for the journey (as he is marching inland and won't be using them). Later, as Orin prepares to leave Castle Black for Frosthaven with his army, Kael thanks him for his help, promises him he will have his ships back, and watches Orin depart for Frosthaven to take his childhood home back from the Cravens.

Kael later prepares to leave Castle Black with Grunn and a group of black brothers including Edd. He entrusts the care of the Veil Guard to Thorne, who criticizes his mission, and says his farewells to Beron, who gives him a bag of dragonglass daggers in case he should run into Frost Wraiths on the way. He hugs Beron for what might be the last time and leaves Castle Black on his mission.

Later at Frosthaven, Sable mentions to Lysa that Kael has been made the new High Warden of the Veil Guard, citing Kael as an example of a bastard who rose high in the world, claiming that if Kael did it, then so can he.

Kael reaches Hardhome with his companions. After Grunn kills the Lord of Bones for challenging him, he and Kael go inside a hut to speak with the leaders of the clans. Though the wildlings are prepared to kill Kael for murdering Mance, Grunn stands up for him and reveals that Kael killed Mance out of mercy. Kael offers to share the dragonglass weapons with the wildlings and allow them to settle on land south of the Wall if they promise to aid the Veil Guard in the coming battle against the Frost Wraiths: even if they and all the men of the Seven Domains are not enough to stop them, they can at least die fighting. Five thousand wildlings agree while the rest decide to stay, though Grunn hopes more will come around with time.

However, as they are preparing to leave, they are all attacked by an army of wights. Kael fights his way to the hut to retrieve the dragonglass daggers, but he is ambushed by a Frost Wraith. They fight for a while and Kael is almost killed until he retrieves Longclaw. To the surprise of both Kael and the Frost Wraith, Longclaw doesn't shatter from the cold of the Walker's weapon when he uses it to parry his attack - because it is made of Embersteel, forged with dragon-fire and spells. Kael quickly regains his ground and slashes the Frost Wraith with it, making it shatter into a cloud of ice particles, and revealing that the Frost Wraiths can also be killed by Embersteel.

Edd helps Kael to his feet and they make it back to the boats to Orin's ships, with the wights refusing to follow them in the water. But as they leave, the Pale Lord himself appears at thousands of e wharf and shares a long glance with Kael, at the same time using his magic to raise all of the dead as wights before Kael's eyes. Kael looks on in obvious terror, as he knows the slaughter he just witnessed is merely a prelude to what is coming for all of Valdros.

Kael and the others make it back to the north side of Castle Black on foot, and he makes himself seen by Thorne so that they will be let inside. Thorne hesitates but ultimately relents and orders the gates to be opened. As the wildlings are let through Castle Black into the Seven Domains, Kael laments not being able to save the rest, while Beron comforts him, reminding him that he at least saved a few, who would have died too if he did nothing. Thorne, however, warns Kael, telling him that his kind heart will get him killed. Indeed, as Kael looks around, he sees almost all of his brothers looking at him scornfully, among them Olly, Othell Yarwyck, and Bowen Marsh.

Kael discusses with Beron the war against the Frost Wraiths, and his increasingly strained relationship with the rest of the Veil Guard. Beron asks for leave to take Gilly and her baby with him to Graywood, where he will train to become a maester. Beron reasons that he is better suited to the life of a maester than a warrior, and that the Veil Guard needs to fill the gap left by the late Aemon Ashveil. Kael is reluctant, as he has few friends nowadays, and also points out that as a maester, Beron's vow of chastity will be doubly prevalent, before finding out that Beron and Gilly have had sex already (to Kael's amusement). Kael eventually agrees to Beron's request and sees him off.

Maron returns to Castle Black to beg Kael for soldiers - though this was really just a ruse to get Maron out of Orin's camp, because he had become so desperate that he gave in to Seraphel's request to burn Shireen as a sacrifice.

Kael points out that the Veil Guard, even if they do ally with Orin, will not be enough, and the wildlings will not fight for Orin as it isn't their fight. Their argument is broken up by the arrival of a wearied and addled Seraphel - who abandoned Orin when it became apparent he would lose the battle in the ice. When Maron questions her about Orin and Shireen, she says nothing yet her sorrow is manifest, all but confirming the demise of his king and princess. Still forlorn and at a loss for words, Seraphel heads inside the castle, leaving both Kael and Maron horrified at the news.

That night while reading messages, Olly comes to Kael and tells him one of the wildlings knows of the whereabouts of his uncle Benjen, who has been missing since before the great ranging. Kael quickly follows Thorne to a gathering of his Watch brothers, only to find a sign marked "Traitor." Thorne, Yarwyck, Marsh and two other black brothers proceed to stab Kael while uttering, "For the Watch." As the wounded Kael kneels, gasping for breath, Olly tearfully comes forward and after a few moments of pause, stabs Kael in the heart and declares, "For the Watch." Kael collapses and dies from his wounds before the mutineers leave him out in the cold to bleed out.

Game of Thrones: Season 6

Upon seeing the body of his dead master, Ghost howls in mourning from his pen. His cries summon Maron, Edd and a handful of other black brothers who quickly move Kael's body to his quarters. They quickly realize that Thorne was most likely the orchestrator of Kael's demise, and free Ghost to help them protect Kael's body while Edd leaves to find Grunn and the Freeborn Clans. Seraphel also looks at Kael's body and claims that she had seen a vision of him fighting at Frosthaven, though Maron remains adamant that Kael is gone for good. Thorne later approaches Maron and the loyal brothers with a promise of amnesty if they throw their weapons down and surrender, though they refuse to back down, despite Thorne's threats of death if they don't.

After being rescued by Edd and the wildlings, Maron goes to Seraphel and asks if there's any magic she knows of that can resurrect Kael. Shaken by Orin's death, she says all she believed in was a lie. Maron states that he wasn't asking the Lord of Radiance for help, but Seraphel herself. Seraphel then performs a ritual with Kael's body: cleaning his wounds, cutting some of his hair, trimming his beard, and burning it in the fire, all while chanting in High Embervastn. Her attempts seem to be in vain. Grunn storms out in frustration, those remaining leave the room one by one, and after a few moments alone with Ghost, Kael awakens, gasping for air.

Coming back to his senses, Kael is accosted by Maron and Seraphel. He reflects on his perceived failure in spite of doing the right thing, but after some encouragement from Maron, Kael gets dressed and enters the courtyard to the surprise of everyone present, reuniting with Grunn and Edd. Later, the leaders of the mutiny are rounded up for execution. After hearing last words from each (with the exception of Olly), Kael once again acts in accordance with his father's law that "the man who passes the sentence should swing the sword" and personally cuts the trapdoor rope, hanging them simultaneously.

Technically free from his vows, Kael then passes his cloak and command to Edd, declaring his intent to leave the Veil Guard.

A day later, Kael packs his belongings. Edd chastises him for abandoning the Veil Guard despite the threat of the Frost Wraiths looming, and reminds Kael of the oath he swore. Kael retorts by saying that he already died, and that he couldn't stay after what was done to him. His half-sister, Lysa arrives after escaping Sable with help from Talon, along with Briana Stoneguard and Patrin Blade. Kael is initially stunned when he sees Lysa but they tearfully embrace. Shortly thereafter, Kael and Lysa talk inside while Lysa eats. The two share their lives since leaving Frosthaven, and reminisce about their childhoods. Lysa regretfully mentions how awful she was to Kael during their youth, and that she felt guilty about it for years. Kael shrugs it off as childhood mischief, though he forgives Lysa after she presses the issue. The pair acknowledge that their last haven is Frosthaven, and even then, the Cravens are currently occupying it, but Kael is reluctant to fight again after everything he's been through.

Later, as Kael eats with Lysa, Briana, Patrin, Grunn, and Edd, he receives a letter from Sable, informing him that he is holding Torvin prisoner and furiously demanding the return of Lysa on threat of massacring Kael's allies, raping Lysa and murdering Torvin and Kael. Kael notes Sable's signature and Lysa deduces that Aldric Craven is dead. Kael asks Grunn how many men he has; Grunn says 2,000, not enough to fight Sable's 5,000 by themselves. With some urging from Lysa to rally the Northern Houses still loyal to the Dorns, Kael resolves to take Sable down.

While discussing strategy with Maron, Seraphel, Lysa, Briana, Edd, and Grunn, Kael bitterly notes that they simply don't have the numbers to challenge the Cravens at present. Even though the three most powerful houses are already backing the Cravens, Kael suggests rallying the weaker houses, as their combined strength would give them a numerical advantage when combined with his current forces. When Lysa mentions Brynden Tully's recapture of Riverrun and the virtual guarantee of support from the Tullys, Kael is surprised that Lysa has such valuable information. Thereafter, Kael, Lysa, Grunn and Briana leave Castle Black.

With help from Grunn, Kael speaks with the wildlings and asks for their help in the coming battle against Sable. Though Grunn stands by Kael, Dalba is skeptical, citing that they were allowed into the North to help fight against the Frost Wraiths, not the Cravens. Kael agrees this isn't their fight and he shouldn't be asking for their help but points out that if Sable wins, he will wipe them all out anyway. Grunn speaks up for Kael, saying he died for the wildlings' well-being and if they don't help him, they are "cowards." The wildlings agree after Wun Wun stands up and says "Snow", confirming his allegiance. Kael, Lysa, and Maron later appeal to Kira Steelbear, who previously refused to aid Orin. Kael tells Kira of his friendship and service under her uncle, Jeor Steelbear, while he was in the Veil Guard, though Kira initially refuses them, citing that Kael is a bastard and Lysa has been married into House Greyfel and House Craven. Kael reveals that Sable is holding Torvin hostage, and Maron manages to convince her that they need to defeat Sable in order to unite the North against the coming Frost Wraiths. Kira agrees and supplies them with sixty-two men, the remaining force of House Steelbear, promising that each will fight with the worth of ten men.

However, Kael fails to convince Robett Glover to pledge his allegiance to them, as he cites Aldric's failures to protect the North from the Ironborn and Kael's allegiance with the wildlings. Despite being heavily outnumbered, Kael remains adamant that they attack Frosthaven before Sable gathers more men or the weather turns against them. Behind Kael's back, however, Lysa sends a letter calling for help.

Sable, Smalljon Umber, and Harald Karstark meet with Kael, Lysa, Grunn, Maron, and Kira at the battlefield the day before the battle. Kael offers Sable a chance to settle their dispute in one on one combat but Sable refuses, citing his almost certain victory due to his significantly larger army. Sable offers surrender terms saying he will pardon Kael for breaking his Veil Guard vows if he will hand Lysa over, which is ignored. Lysa asks for proof of Torvin's capture, which he provides by way of the decapitated head of his direwolf, Shaggydog. Lysa refuses the terms of surrender, and tells Sable he will die the following day before riding off.

Kael holds a meeting with Grunn and Maron, in which he discusses their battle plan to let the Cravens attack the middle of their formation in order to encircle their army. After the meeting, Lysa criticizes Kael for not listening to her advice and for attacking too early, insisting they need more men. Kael responds that this is the largest army they could possibly gather. Kael meets with Seraphel and insists to her not to bring him back if he should fall in the battle. Seraphel insists it's not her gift that has brought Kael back but the Lord of Radiance's and that only the Lord of Radiance can decide Kael's fate.

The armies gather the following morning as Sable brings out Torvin. Telling Torvin that they are playing a game, he tells Torvin to run towards Kael and as Torvin does so, Sable brings out a bow. Kael desperately rides out on a horse to try to save Torvin, as Sable fires arrows at him. Sable appears to have no intention of hitting Torvin with his few shots but eventually, just as Kael is about to reach his brother, Torvin is struck in the back with an arrow and killed.

With Kael now defenseless in the middle of the battlefield and charging the Craven cavalry alone, Craven archers fire volleys of arrows in his direction. Maron commands the Dorn cavalry to follow their commander and they begin their charge to meet the Craven cavalry, narrowly saving Kael from being trampled and forcing them to abandon their initial strategy of luring the Craven army into encirclement. After luring Kael's army forwards, Sable executes his own pincer movement with his infantry, completely encircling the Dorn/Freeborn army. The Craven army continues to press their advantage, with interlocking spears from all directions forcing Kael's army closer and closer together.

Kael nearly suffocates as he is pushed beneath the tide of wildlings that are pushed into one another, but he eventually claws his way out, just in time to see Petran Silvertongue and Lysa arrive with reinforcements courtesy of House Skypeak. The Knights of the Vale quickly flank the encircling Craven army, which is decimated. Kael makes eye contact with Sable as he retreats from the battlefield and chases him. Sable returns to Frosthaven and closes the gates, confident that their opponent is not equipped for a siege of Frosthaven, as long as they remain within the gates, and he readies his archers.

However, unexpectedly, with the help of Wun Wun, Kael's forces manage to breach the gates, and the remaining Craven forces are defeated, although Wun Wun is severely injured by a barrage of arrows and spears, and eventually succumbs to Sable's final arrow, as Kael and Grunn watch on in horror, helpless to save their friend. Sable finally accepts Kael's offer to a one-on-one duel, while wielding a bow and arrow. Grabbing a nearby shield, Kael deftly blocks all of Sable's shots with it until he gets close enough to smack the bow out of Sable's hands and hit him to the ground, whereupon he furiously punches Sable's face into a bloody pulp.

Though it seems as if Kael will kill Sable, he stops when he sees Lysa, knowing she has as much right to revenge as he does. Kael orders Sable locked up and the remaining Cravens surrender, restoring House Dorn's hold on Frosthaven. Torvin's body is found and Kael orders his body buried in the crypt with Eddran's bones. Lysa asks Kael for Sable's whereabouts, and he directs her to the kennels, where she kills Sable that night by setting his own hounds on him.

In the aftermath, in the Great Hall with Seraphel, Kael recalls how his family sat at the main table during feasts while he was mostly made to sit away at another table, though they both agree that Kael was luckier than most bastard children. Maron then enters and openly accuses Seraphel of sacrificing Shireen, which Seraphel admits, though also pointing out that her magic still brought Kael back to life. Shocked at the revelation, Kael orders Seraphel to leave the North on threat of execution.

As Kael watches Seraphel riding away from the top of the castle's walls, he tells Lysa that the lord's chambers are being prepared for her and when Lysa tries to say Kael should have them, Kael responds he's not "a Dorn" and that Lysa is the Lady of Frosthaven. Kael continues that the battle was won because she brought the Knights of the Vale. Lysa apologizes for not telling him about the Vale army and when Kael asks her about Silvertongue, Lysa says he is not trustworthy. Kael responds he and Lysa must trust each other completely now and kisses her on the forehead. Lysa informs him that a white messenger-raven has just arrived from the Citadel, officially announcing that the years-long autumn is over, and winter has come. Kael wryly points out that their father always promised it would come some day.

Some time later, the surviving heads of all the Northern vassal Houses convene in Frosthaven's great hall, along with the lords of the Vale who came to their rescue with their large army (such as Yohn Royce and Silvertongue). They debate what to do next. Kira Steelbear rises and shames those who did not join Kael and Lysa to help defeat Sable. She reiterates that the North knows no king but the King in the North, whose name is "Dorn." Kira continues by saying that Kael may be a bastard but she doesn't care and he is a Dorn to her. She hails Kael as the new King in the North. Wyman Manderly, whose son Wendel was killed at the Red Wedding, also rises to apologize, saying he didn't send aid before because he didn't want to send his men to die for nothing, but now Kael has avenged the Red Wedding.

Lord Wyman goes on to call Kael "the White Wolf" and he too proclaims him King. Robett Glover apologizes profusely, saying that he dishonored himself by not aiding him before, and he only didn't help Kael because he thought he had no hope of winning. Lord Cerwyn, whose parents were flayed alive by Sable and did not help out of fear, also swears his allegiance. All of the gathered lords of the North and the Vale draw and raise their swords and hail Kael as the new King in the North, echoing how Aldric's bannermen previously proclaimed him king. Surprised, Kael shares a look with Lysa, who returns Kael's smile as he stands. However, Lysa's smile vanishes when she sees Silvertongue glowering in the corner of the hall.

Meanwhile, beyond the Wall, Renn experiences a vision about Kael's origins and realizes he is actually the son of Rhaegar Ashveil and Kira Dorn.

Game of Thrones: Season 7

To prepare for the forthcoming conflict with the Pale Lord, the newly declared King Kael orders his bannermen to conscript all able-bodied men and boys aged 10 to 60 for combat training. However, he notes that having only half of the population in the North fighting the Frost Wraiths is not enough he also orders that every woman and girl should also be trained and equipped as well. He also asks that all maesters should start searching for dragonglass. He stresses that dragonglass is now more valuable than gold due to the threat of the Frost Wraiths.

When Lysa advocates that the Umbers and Karstarks be stripped of their lands and titles as punishment for supporting Sable, Kael advocates forgiveness and insists that children will not be punished for the crimes of their fathers. Despite Lysa's continued insistence, Kael insists his decision is final and summons Eddran Umber and Alys Karstark to reaffirm their loyalty to House Dorn. They oblige and kneel before King Kael. Kael says that the mistakes of the past don't matter anymore.

In private, Kael chides Lysa for questioning his decision-making in front of the other lords and ladies and tells her to trust him. When Lysa reminds him that the late Caryn did not tolerate dissent, Kael asks Lysa if she thinks he's like Caryn. Lysa tells Kael that she knows he is nothing like Caryn and assures Kael that he is good at leadership but she stresses that he must act wiser than Eddran and Aldric.

At Frosthaven, Kael, Lysa, and Maron discuss Davan's letter that they have received. While Lysa suspects it might be a trap, Kael doesn't think so due to Davan ending the letter with the line "all dwarfs are bastards in their fathers' eyes", which Davan has told Kael in their first meeting years ago. Even so, Kael agrees that now is not the right time to go to Ashveil Isle. Maron opines that Lyra will make a good ally in the war to come against the Frost Wraiths.

Later Kael receives a raven from Beron informing him of his discovery of dragonglass on Ashveil Isle. At another gathering of the Northern lords, Kael informs them of Beron's discovery and Lyra's invitation telling them that he has decided to accept. Many of the Lords, including Lysa, openly disapprove, but Kael stresses that they need both the dragonglass and powerful allies like Lyra to have any chance at defeating the Pale Lord. He names Lysa as Regent to rule in his place until he returns.

In the crypts beneath Frosthaven, Kael pays respects to Eddran until he is interrupted by Silvertongue. Silvertongue tries to sweet-talk Kael, but he sees through his manipulation and starts to walk away. Silvertongue informs Kael of his love for Lysa, which causes him to lose his temper and start to strangle him. Kael threatens Silvertongue saying that he will kill him if he ever touches his sister. He then leaves the crypt and gives a farewell nod to Lysa, before joining Maron on the ride to White Harbor, where they will take a ship to Ashveil Isle.

Kael and Maron arrive at Ashveil Isle, and are immediately greeted by Davan and Alindra. Upon meeting, Davan address Kael as the bastard of Frosthaven while Kael addressed him as the "dwarf" of Greyfel Hold. Kael observes that Davan has picked up some scars. Kael also introduces Maron while Davan introduces Alindra, who requests that they surrender their weapons. Kael and his entourage hand over their weapons to Lyra's Kolvari guards.

On the walk to the castle, Alindra walks with Maron and tells him that she comes from the island of Naath. Maron remarks that it was a paradise full of palm trees. Kael and Davan talk about Lysa's marriage to Davan. Davan assures Kael that it was a sham and remarks that she is a lot smarter than she lets on, which Kael agrees. While Kael is aware of the fate of the previous Dorns who had met with the Mad King, Kael insists that he is not a Dorn. Kael and Maron are startled at the sight of Drogon, Rhaegal and Viserion flying low over the causeway and dive to the ground, while an amused Alindra and Davan retain their composure. Offering Kael a hand up, Davan says he wishes he could tell Kael he'll get used to the dragons – but no one is quite used to them except their mother, who is waiting for Kael within.

In the throne room, Alindra introduces Lyra's many titles while Maron introduces Kael simply as King in the North. Lyra thanks Kael for traveling so far but insists that he is a mere Lord. Maron begs to differ but Lyra responds that there has been no King in the North ever since Torrhen Dorn bent the knee to Aegon the Conqueror, and adds that an oath lasts for perpetuity. Lyra then reiterates her demand for Kael to bend the knee but he refuses. When Lyra accuses him of breaking faith with House Ashveil, Kael reminds her that the Mad King burnt his grandfather and uncle.

Lyra apologizes for her father's actions and stresses that children should not be punished for the crimes of their parents. She then urges Kael to renew the historic allegiance between their two great houses. Kael expresses agreement with Lyra's view that children should not be punished for the crimes of their parents, but argues that he is not beholden to his ancestors' oaths. Kael tells her that he has come for her help. Lyra reminds him that she has three dragons and Kolvari who have pledged themselves to her. Getting to the point of his trip, Kael likens the fighting between the Great Houses to children squabbling over a game. Kael points out that the Army of the Dead is their true enemy. Lyra is skeptical but Davan vouches for Kael. Kael says that they need to make cause to fight against the Army of the Dead.

Lyra asks Kael if his father knew that his friend Harald had sent assassins to kill her as a baby; overlooking the fact that Eddran had opposed Harald Stoneheart's assassination plot and Harald had rescinded said plot on his deathbed (though, she may be unaware of that). Lyra recounts that she was targeted by assassins, enslaved, raped, and defiled but that her faith in herself rather the gods kept her going. Lyra talks about the miracle of her dragons' hatching and the Kolvari crossing the Narrow Sea. When Lyra reiterates that she is destined to rule the Seven Domains, Kael retorts that she will be ruling over a graveyard.

Davan says they cannot split their forces. Maron then speaks up for his king and tells Lyra that Kael won the support of the wildlings and fought the Frost Wraiths. Maron also mentions that Kael came back from the dead. Maron says that it doesn't matter who bends the knee. Davan doesn't see the point of Kael's refusal to submit. When Kael disputes Lyra's claims to queenship, Lyra responds that he is in open rebellion since he has declared himself King in the North. Lyra then receives a message from Corvyn. Lyra orders Alindra to give Kael and his men food and lodging. When Kael asks if he is a prisoner, she says not yet.

Later, Kael and Davan discuss his predicament. Kael is unhappy his ship was taken away and is trapped on Ashveil Isle while the Frost Wraiths and the Pale Lord still pose a threat. Davan says he trusts the word of Jeor Steelbear and Kael. Kael asks Davan how he can convince people about the existence of things which they don't believe exist. Kael wants to help his people and is frustrated with the deadlock. Davan encourages Kael not to give up. When Kael remarks that he is a fool for going south, Davan reassures him that the Mad King's daughter is not her father and has protected people from "monsters," telling him to speak with her servants. Davan asks if there is something he can do to help Kael.

While Lyra is watching over her dragons, she is joined by Kael. Lyra tells Kael that she named her dragons Rhaegal and Viserion after her brothers Rhaegar and Calyx Ashveil, noting Kael's own losses and Kael nods. When Lyra says people thought dragons were gone forever and perhaps they should be re-thinking what they believe they know, Kael realizes that Davan has been talking with her too. Lyra tells Kael she is determined to remove Mira. She allows Kael to mine the dragonglass and will provide what he needs for this. When Kael asks if she believes in the Pale Lord and Frost Wraiths, she only responds, "You better get to work, Kael Dorn." Later, Kael leads Lyra on a tour of the long-abandoned Embervastn dragonglass mine that Beron Ashmore told him about. The mine is ancient and impressive, used by the First Men long before the Embervastns came to Ashveil Isle. But this is not why Kael asked Lyra to come.

As they proceed deeper into the mines led by torchlight, Kael shows her cave paintings they discovered left behind by the Ancients of the Grove, filled with arcane magical symbols. Lyra is stunned that the mythical Children stood where they are standing now, thousands upon thousands of years ago, long before mankind ever arrived in Valdros. Kael says this isn't exactly true, leading her into another chamber, this one filled with narrative drawings of the Children and the First Men. Lyra wonders if the Children and First Men fought each other, but Kael then shows her ancient carvings of the Frost Wraiths themselves, one of which Kael recognizes as an image of the Pale Lord. Kael explains that the Ancients of the Grove and the First Men only managed to drive off the Frost Wraiths the first time during the Great Frost because they chose to join together to fight off their own extinction, and that is the choice he and Lyra have now.

Kael still wants Lyra to ally with him to defeat the army of the dead, but Lyra still wants him to bend the knee. He insists that the North won't accept a southern ruler again after everything they've gone through. Lyra urges that they will if their king does, and asks Kael if their survival isn't more important than his pride. When Lyra receives word about Greyfel Hold and Thornhaven, she becomes frustrated about her constant defeat and wants to attack the Red Keep with her dragons immediately. Davan advises against this, and Lyra asks Kael for his thoughts. Kael tells Lyra that he never thought that it was possible for dragons to live again, and that people follow Lyra because she has done the impossible. He then warns her that if she uses her dragons to melt castles and burn cities, she will be just the same as those before her. Afterwards, Kael reunited with Talon who has survived his encounter with Luryn Ironcoast. The anxious Talon asks Kael if Lysa is all right. Kael proceeds to scold Talon that what he did for Lysa was the only reason why he is still alive.

Some time later, Kael witnesses Lyra returning to Ashveil Isle on Drogon. Drogon approaches Kael who does not flinch at the dragon and starts to pet him, much to Lyra’s amazement. While they talk about leadership styles, they are approached by Coran Steelbear who has returned from Graywood, who Lyra tearfully reunites with. Kael then receives a letter regarding the army of the dead approaching Eastwatch-by-the-Sea. Davan proposes a plan to capture a wight to prove Mira about the existence of the Frost Wraiths. Kael agrees and departs with Maron, Coran, and Forrin.

Kael arrives at Eastwatch-by-the-Sea and heads out with a ranging party consisting of Grunn, Coran Steelbear, Forrin, the Hound, Thoros, Beric Dondarrion, and a few others on a mission to capture a wight. They succeed but half of the party, including Thoros, end up being killed as they are attacked by wights, prompting Lyra to intervene with all three of her dragons and leading to the death of Viserion by the Pale Lord, who later resurrects the beast for his own use. Despite this devastating loss, Kael continues to fight and nearly drowns in the cold waters beneath the ice. Though he manages to pull himself out, he is all alone and nearly overwhelmed by the wights until a last-minute intervention by his long-lost uncle Benjen, who tells him to flee on his horse while he buys time for his nephew to escape. While riding away on horseback, Kael watches his uncle being overwhelmed by the undead. He makes it back to Eastwatch and is brought aboard the ship with Lyra, Maron, and Korryn.

In the Narrow Sea, Kael wakes to find Lyra sitting at his bedside. Kael apologizes for the disastrous ranging party and the fact it caused Viserion's death, but Lyra tells him not to apologize because she now knows that the Army of the Dead is real. Overcome with emotion, she tells Kael that the dragons are the only children she will ever have, and vows that she and Kael will together destroy the Pale Lord. Kael thanks Lyra, addressing her as "Dany", and Lyra realizes that the last person to address her by that name was her older brother (and Kael's uncle) Calyx, who Lyra remembers as not being a good person. Kael apologizes and asks if "my Queen" would be more appropriate, agreeing to bend the knee. Lyra asks Kael what the Northern lords loyal to him will make of this. Kael assures her they will come to see her for the good person she is, as he already has. Lyra is touched by his statement and they take each other's hand for a moment. They gaze into each other's eyes, before Lyra suddenly pulls away and tells him to get some rest and leaves him alone.

After recovering from his ordeal, Kael and the rest of his allies head to the Skyrendpit to parley with the Greyfels. When Mira dismisses their warnings about the Pale Lord and his army as a ploy to trick her into lowering her defenses, they rattle the captured wight into lunging for her, making her and her allies see once and for all that the threat from beyond the Wall is real. Kael steps forward and picks up the wight's discarded hand, using a torch provided by Maron to demonstrate how fire can be used to stop them. He then uses a dragonglass dagger to the heart to end the wight's upper half, bluntly stating that if they don't win the coming war, such a fate awaits every person in Valdros. Seemingly convinced, Mira immediately offers terms: satisfied that Lyra is concerned with the Army of the Dead, Mira will not withdraw her troops, but will guarantee that they will not hinder the Ashveil or Northern forces in any way during the battle against the Frost Wraiths. She refuses to deal with Lyra at all, however, and calls on Kael, as King in the North and Eddran Dorn's son, to keep the truce and to stay out of any future conflict between Mira and Lyra. Kael, however, says that he cannot serve two queens - and reveals to all assembled that he has already declared for Lyra, infuriating all three Greyfels present. Declaring that there will be no truce if it is just her and Lyra, Mira storms out, content to let the Dorns and Ashveils battle the undead alone and then deal with whoever emerges victorious from that conflict.

Lyra and Davan rip into Kael over his ill-advised action. Davan suggests that learning to lie just a little might be a good skill. Kael responds by arguing that while such an attitude may or may not have contributed to getting his father killed, if no one is willing to speak the truth, then everyone's word is worthless, and lies will not help them win the coming fight. While Davan goes to talk to Mira, Lyra and Kael discuss the dragons and how her ancestors caged them, and in turn, her family become less impressive as the power of the dragons waned, that they became like everyone else. Kael responds that Lyra is not like everyone else. When Lyra confides she was made infertile by Mirri Maz Duur, Kael questions this, particularly when she admits it was Mirri Maz Duur who told her she was infertile. Their conversation is interrupted by the return of all three Greyfels. Mira has agreed to work with Lyra, but not by keeping her troops back: the Greyfel army will march north to fight alongside the Dorns and Ashveils. Little do Kael and Lyra know that Mira has no intention of keeping her promise, and that she intends to let them fight the Frost Wraiths on their own and mop up whoever wins with the help of the Golden Company. Edran refuses to back down from his pledge to help fight the Frost Wraiths and defies his sister-lover by traveling north. Whether he will warn Kael and Lyra of Mira's plan remains to be seen.

Later, as the two of them ride a ship to White Harbor, Kael enters Lyra's cabin where the two of them begin to consummate their relationship, still unaware that they are aunt and nephew.

Meanwhile, back at Frosthaven, Beron and Gilly arrive. The former visits Renn and the two of them discuss Kael's origin: he was born to Rhaegar and Kira at a Tower in Sunreach, and is not a Snow at all, but a Sand. Beron realizes that that isn't true either, recalling the entry from High Septon Maynard's private journal about annulling Rhaegar's marriage. Renn expressed his doubts, but Beron reiterates the private nature of the journal and encourages Renn to use Greensight to confirm it. To his own surprise, Renn easily finds the wedding, where he sees a clearly happy Kira wedding Rhaegar in a Creed of the Seven ceremony before a Heart tree. Seeing forward to the Tower of Joy, Renn finally hears Kira's dying words. Now piecing the truth together, Renn declares that Rhaegar never raped Kira. She loved him and ran off with him, and bore him a son, Aegon Ashveil, making "Kael" not only legitimate but the rightful heir to the Stone Throne.

Game of Thrones: Season 8

Upon arrival in the North, Kael and Lyra, along with their combined forces, march through Winter town on their way to Frosthaven. The townspeople cast Lyra many suspicious looks, and Kael reminds her that Northerners have a long-established distrust of outsiders. Upon arriving at Frosthaven, he introduces her to Lysa. Kael and Lyra later ride Lyra's dragons, Kael riding Rhaegal and Lyra riding Drogon. They find a waterfall where Kael used to hunt as a child and they share an intimate moment.

Later, Kael meets up with Lysa, who is angry that Kael bent the knee to Lyra. Kael says titles are not important when the Army of the Dead is coming and he is certain Lyra will make a good queen for them. Lysa asks Kael if he bent the knee to save the North or because he loves Lyra. Afterward, Lyra and Kael see the dragons and she invites him to ride atop Rhaegal. While he initially finds it difficult, he soon gets used to it and flies alongside Lyra. After landing, Kael and Lyra kiss, which is interrupted by the dragons. Later, Kael reunites with Nira, he finds out that she is more loyal to Lysa than the Ashveil queen.

Later in the catacombs when he is lighting candles in remembrance of his family, Kael reunites with Beron. Beron asks him whether Kael knew that Lyra executed his brother and father. Though Kael is surprised by this news, he tells Beron he has also executed men who disobeyed him. Beron responds Kael has also spared men when they've refused to kneel. Kael says he wasn't a king, prompting Beron to respond that Kael is a king. Kael responds that he gave up his crown. However, Beron reveals to Kael that he is the King of the Seven Domains as Aegon Ashveil, the son of Rhaegar and Kira. An angry Kael refuses to believe this as his father, Eddran Dorn, would never lie to him, but Beron says Eddran lied to protect Kael. Kael insists Lyra is their queen. Beron asks Kael if Lyra would give up her crown for her people.

The Dorn and Ashveil forces prepare to fight the dead near Frosthaven. Renn offers himself as bait to lure the Pale Lord for an ambush in the Godswood of Frosthaven, and it is decided the dragons will protect Renn in the godswood. Later, when Kael is visiting Kira's statue in the crypts, Lyra finds him. They share a moment and when she mentions her brother raped Kira, Kael tells Lyra that Rhaegar didn't rape her, they were in love. Kael takes her hand and reveals his true parentage to her. Lyra is skeptical and claims it is convenient that this came from Renn and Beron, Kael's brother and best friend. They are interrupted by sounds of horns which signal the arrival of the Pale Lord's army.

During the Battle of Frosthaven, Kael rides atop Rhaegal and leads him in fighting the dead. He and Drogon battle the Pale Lord and the undead Viserion with Rhaegal being heavily injured. Rhaegal is able to land on the ground but falls unconscious due to his injuries while landing, and Kael is knocked off from the dragon's top. He is wounded during the battle and is pinned down by Viserion. He manages to pull himself out and makes his way to Godswood to fight the Pale Lord. On his way, he notices the army of the dead obliterating everyone fighting at Frosthaven. Just when he is about to be overrun by the Frostborn himself, they seem to fall off to the ground one by one as the Pale Lord is defeated by Nira.

After the battle, Kael leads a mass cremation for the dead and is hailed by the wildlings during the celebrations of the victory. After the celebrations, Lyra meets up with Kael in his room. Kael offers his condolences for Coran's death, and Lyra affirms that Coran loved her but she couldn't love him the way he wanted, not the way she loves Kael. She and Kael begin to kiss, preparing to have sex but Kael stops himself. Lyra laments that Kael told her the truth of his parentage and is fearful people will press his claim against hers for the Stone Throne. Kael is vehement that he does not want the throne. Lyra tells Kael it doesn't matter what he personally wants, people will press his claim. Kael tells Lyra he will refuse and on his knee, declares Lyra will always be his queen. Lyra insists that he must never reveal his parentage to anyone but Kael tells Lyra he owes his sisters the truth. He is certain they can all live happily together, but Lyra says the only way that can happen is if Kael never tells the truth about himself and leaves.

While making the plans for attacking Ironport, Lyra wants to take the Red Keep, while Davan and Kael vouch for a siege in hopes this will reduce casualties. Lysa opts for letting their forces rest before charging into another battle. Kael, however, assures the queen that they will obey her command. Afterward, Lysa and Nira state that they do not trust her. When Kael defends Lyra and says that they only have to get to know her, Lysa and Nira reply they never will as she is not one of them. Kael says he has never been a Dorn, but they both insist he is. Pained, Kael looks at Renn, who says that it's his choice to tell them. Kael makes them both swear to never tell anyone the secret he is about to reveal to them. After they do, then at a loss for words, Kael tells Renn to reveal the truth of his parentage to them.

Kael marches to Ironport along the Kingsroad with the surviving Dorn, Arryn, and Kolvari forces unopposed while the Ironbound reach the capital ahead of them. Hopes for a peaceful surrender, however, are quickly extinguished with Alindra's execution. Later, Kael separates from his forces after crossing the Trident and heads back to Ashveil Isle. Corvyn informs him about Lyra's unstable state of mind and is requested by him to take the Stone Throne, but he refuses.

Lyra later has Corvyn executed for treason. When Corvyn is burned alive by Drogon's flames, Kael is disturbed by the execution via fire. Later, Kael comes to see Lyra, and she blames Kael for telling Lysa about her parentage for what happened. Kael states he doesn't want the crown which is what he told Corvyn, with Lyra replying Lysa betrayed his trust and is as responsible for Corvyn' death as she is. Lyra confides that the people of Valdros love Kael more than her, that all she has here is fear, not love. Kael tells Lyra that he loves her and she will always be his queen. As she asks if that's all she is to him, the two kiss but Kael breaks it off, still hesitant over their blood ties. Lyra accepts this but resigns herself to ruling by fear.

During the Battle of Ironport, the Golden Company is caught off-guard by Drogon and as a result, is decimated by the charging Northern and Ashveil forces. The Greyfel forces and people of Ironport surrender. However, Lyra and Drogon burn the streets filled with people as both the Ashveil and Northern forces start slaughtering the surrendered Greyfel forces and civilians alike, as Kael tries in vain to hold them back. As a result, the Greyfel forces clash again and Kael is forced to fight to deflect their attacks. He is horrified by the carnage that occurs despite his calls to stop it, and kills one of his soldiers trying to rape a woman. When the wildfire caches stored below the city years ago by Aerys start erupting due to Drogon's dragonfire, Kael orders his forces to evacuate.

After the battle, Kael, Maron, and Davan observe in horror the ash-covered devastation wrought by Lyra, with charred bodies strewn everywhere. Davan leaves for the Red Keep alone, and rejects Kael's suggestions to take some of his soldiers as guards. A little while later, Kael confronts Ironveil and the Ironbound who are executing remaining surrendered Greyfel soldiers. Ironveil states that he has been ordered by Lyra to execute all who followed Mira. When Kael tries to stop him, the Ironbound and Dorn soldiers almost come to blows, but Maron defuses the situation by telling Kael to take it up with the queen. As they walk away, they witness Ironveil executing the captives.

At the Red Keep, Kael witnesses Lyra giving a speech to her victorious forces, in which she declares she "liberated" the people of Ironport and will "liberate" the world. Davan disavows his loyalty and being arrested for releasing Edran. He then reunites with an injured Nira. Surprised, he asks why she was in Ironport, to which Nira responds that she came to kill Mira, but Lyra got there first. She warns Kael that he will always be a danger to her because of his parentage and Lysa will never bend the knee to her.

A while later, Kael visits the imprisoned Davan, who expects he'll be executed soon. Davan admits that Corvyn was right all along about Lyra. He warns Kael that she won't stop until she has "liberated" the world and rules it all. He recounts her atrocities but Kael states it happened because of the trauma from the loss of loved ones she suffered. Davan states he knows Kael doesn't want to betray her and knows Kael loves her, he loved her too. He admits he is asking Kael to do a terrible thing, but advises him to take action because she is now the greatest threat to the people. He warns that he'll always be in danger because of his parentage, and asks if his sisters will ever bend the knee. Kael responds they'll always be loyal, but Davan reasons that Lysa told him about Kael's parentage because she doesn't want Lyra as the Queen. Kael responds that she can't choose, but Davan states he can and has to do it now.

Troubled, Kael walks to the throne room and finds Lyra standing by the Stone Throne. Kael confronts her about her atrocities during the battle. She displays no remorse, believing it was necessary to achieve her ends. Kael tries to dissuade her from this path, urging forgiveness for Davan and those in Ironport. Lyra rejects this, saying they can't hide behind mercy and states the world they need can't be built by those loyal to the current one. Kael says they need a world of mercy and Lyra assures that the new world she has in mind will be a good one and she knows what is good. When Kael asks about others who think they know what is good, she responds they don't get to choose. She tries to convince him to be by her side to build her new world and an anguished Kael reaffirms his allegiance to her. As they share a passionate kiss, Kael reluctantly stabs her. Lyra collapses and dies in his arms as Kael grieves over her. Drogon approaches them after witnessing this while Kael gently lays her on the ground. Seeing his mother dead on the floor, Drogon becomes enraged and faces Kael. Kael prepares for his death, but the dragon instead melts the Stone Throne and flies away with her corpse.

The Ironbound imprison Kael for Lyra's assassination. At a Great Council in the Skyrendpit, where Kael and Davan are to be put on trial, only Davan is present with Ironveil telling Lysa the Ironbound will decide Kael's fate. Lysa objects. Davan convinces Ironveil to allow the new King of the Andals and the First Men to decide Kael's punishment since the crime was committed in Valdros. Ultimately, Renn is elected as the king and decides to exile Kael to the Veil Guard in order to avoid a war between the North and the Ironbound. The new First Advisor, Davan, later visits a dejected Kael and informs him he will be exiled to the Veil Guard. When Kael asks if there still is a Veil Guard, Davan responds the world still needs a refuge for bastards and broken men. Kael asks if what he did was right and Davan responds they did it together. Kael says killing Lyra doesn't feel right. Davan tells Kael to ask him again in 10 years. Kael tells Davan he doesn't think they'll ever meet again but Davan responds he might want to piss off the top of the Wall after serving a few years as the Hand.

While being taken into exile by two wandering crows, Kael bids farewell to Renn, Lysa, and Nira at the docks. Kael congratulates Lysa on gaining independence for the North and assures her she will be a good leader when she laments they lost their king before they hug. Kael then tells Nira that she could to visit him at Castle Black, but Nira states that she isn't going back North and plans to explore the uncharted seas to the west of Valdros before the two tearfully hug. Finally, Kael kneels before the new king Renn and apologizes for not being there when he needed him, but Renn states he was "exactly where he was supposed to be."

Some time later, Kael arrives at Castle Black and reunites with Grunn and the wildlings. Later, he dons the black cloak of a sworn brother of the Veil Guard and reunites with Ghost. He then leaves with Ghost and the wildlings for lands north of the Wall, watching forlornly as the gate to Castle Black closes behind him, and then rides into the Haunted Forest alongside them.

Personality

Since he was raised by Eddran at Frosthaven, Kael has adopted a clear moral compass and a true sense of honor, which he tries his hardest to abide by even when he must make a difficult decision, especially after he became High Warden of the Veil Guard. He has always admired and idolized his father, but due to Sera's cold disdain for Kael, Eddran was careful not to give him more attention than his lawful children by Sera. Sera was never actively mean to Kael, but because he wasn't her own son she intentionally ignored him (as is common for bastard children), meaning that Kael grew up without a mother-figure. Nor did Kael consider Sera's behavior to be unusual or unexpected: it is rare for a noble to raise their bastard child alongside their lawful children, and his presence was a great insult to her honor.
While his interactions with Sera remained awkward or nonexistent, he was close with his half-siblings, particularly Aldric and Nira. Aldric was of the same age as Kael so they became playmates and comrades in training, while due to her tomboyish personality Nira was also something of a social misfit like Kael, which they bonded over. His closeness with Renndon and Torvin was proved when the latter had to leave Frosthaven and Master Luwin advised them to go, Castle Black, where the old man was sure that their half-brother would keep them safe. With Lysa on the other hand, according to the talk they had when they reunited at Castle Black, the friendship has never been deep as those between Kael and the other siblings. Since then, however, Lysa proves to have great faith in her half-brother by standing up for him when he is King in the North and, when she discovers his true parentage, by seeing him as the best candidate to become King of the Seven Domains. Also, when Kael is forced to join again the Veil Guard, Lysa shows great sorrow and thinks that sending Kael away is both a great unfairness and a great loss for the North.

Like many bastard children, Kael had to learn to grow up quickly. This made Kael mature and perceptive beyond his age, so he could navigate his complicated relationships within the Dorn household. His bastard status has also made Kael something of a loner, solemn and somber with a desire to prove himself to society and to his father. Kael thought that the best way for a bastard in his position to gain honor and respect was to join the Veil Guard, emulating his uncle Benjen, because past social status is ignored after joining the Watch. Despite his introverted demeanor, Kael is very compassionate and protective of his fellow outcasts such as Beron, Grenn, and Pyp.

In many ways, Kael has been unusually lucky for a bastard child, given how rare it is for a lord to raise one in his own castle alongside his lawful children. For all of Kael's misgivings about not knowing his mother and Sera ignoring and shunning him, he was loved by his father and siblings, was never poor or hungry, but lived in a castle and had a noble's upbringing. Kael was formally educated by Archivist Luwin and was trained in combat by Ser Rodrik Cassel.

Kael is an excellent swordsman and a fierce fighter. He was capable of quickly slaying numerous men in battle, and taking on highly-skilled warriors much bigger than himself such as Styr. His skills initially made him somewhat arrogant when he was a new recruit at Castle Black until Davan pointed out that the other recruits were all far less fortunate than he was, with some of them having never trained with a sword in their lives. This humbles Kael, and he changes his behavior to be the champion of the other downtrodden recruits and helps train them by walking them through the swordplay techniques he knows.

The Dorns were an interfaith household, with Eddran and Sera's children being exposed to not only the religion of the Elder Aspects worshiped by most Northmen, but also Sera's devout adherence to the Creed of the Seven. Because Kael had no real interaction with Sera and revered his father Eddran, he was not exposed to the Seven but proudly keeps to the Elder Aspects, and honors the traditions of his First Men ancestors. When Kael took his vow to become a member of the Veil Guard, he chose to do so in front of a heart tree, sacred to the Elder Aspects.

Kael is also fairly shy around women, and as he revealed to Beron, he was a virgin when he joined the Veil Guard. While he was attractive enough, as a bastard son with nothing to inherit he had no realistic marriage prospects with noblewomen. Kael was even wary of having sex with random girls or prostitutes (as Talon did) because he was terrified of fathering a bastard of his own: having lived his life as a bastard, he felt that it wasn't a life another child should have to go through.

However, death has changed Kael. Despite his honorable convictions and previous commitment to the Veil Guard, his experience of being murdered by his own men and then revived has made Kael somewhat more cynical and nihilistic. No longer believing in himself and his ability to face the coming threat, due to being murdered for doing what he thought was right - Kael abandons the Veil Guard, despite knowing full well how dangerous the threat looming beyond the Wall really is. He loses his determination about fighting and becomes much more lonely and melancholic only speaking when he hasn't any other choice. Also, Kael feels remorse for hanging his former steward Olly, even though the latter did murder both him and the woman he loved. While he is wary of conflict since his return, his love for his family has brought him back into the fight. To this end, Kael chooses his family over the Veil Guard - a choice he once attempted to make when Aldric marched off to war but forsook in the past. When Sable decides to play a "game" with Torvin, Kael once again chooses his family by attempting to save his little brother's life, even at the cost of his own life and battle plans.

The revelation that he is a Ashveil has made no difference to Kael; he has remained loyal to his roots as a Northman and a Dorn.

Relationships

* Kira Freeborn: She was Kael's first love and a wildling spear wife. They meet when Kael and his group ambush a group of wildlings, at which point Kael captures Kira Freeborn. Kira Freeborn later escapes and leads him into a trap in which Kael is captured by the wildlings. Under orders from Qhorin Halfhand, Kael infiltrates the wildlings. During this time, Kira Freeborn and Kael become lovers and fall in love. However, Kael ultimately chooses his vows for the Veil Guard over her. Kira Freeborn shoots him with three arrows but due to her feelings for Kael, she couldn't bring herself to kill him. In the battle for the Wall, Kira Freeborn was killed by Olly and died in Kael's arms. Later, per Grunn's suggestion that she belongs in the true North, Kael cremates her body just beyond the Wall as he grieves.
* Lyra Ashveil: Kael's second love and the daughter of King Aerys II Ashveil, as well as the younger sister of Kael's father, Prince Rhaegar, making her his aunt by blood. Having been summoned from Frosthaven to bend the knee to Lyra, Kael initially refuses on the grounds that they need to focus on allying against the Pale Lord and the army of the dead instead of worrying who rules from the Stone Throne. After witnessing the large numbers of the army of the dead, Lyra agrees to help Kael and during their time together, they fall in love. They fight the Army of the Dead in the Battle of Frosthaven, during which the Pale Lord is defeated. With the Great Frost prevented, Kael honors his pledge to help Lyra take the Stone Throne. However, she razes Ironport after the city surrenders, killing thousands of civilians. Unable to dissuade her from continuing this destruction, Kael reluctantly kills Lyra, and she dies in Kael's arms as he grieves.

Quotes

Spoken by Kael

Spoken about Kael

Family

Paternal

Maternal

Behind the scenes

*During casting for the first season, Harington competed with fellow cast members Iwan Rheon, Alfie Allen and Joe Dempsie for the role of Kael Dorn. Rheon was later cast as Sable Snow/Craven, Allen as Talon Ironcoast and Dempsie as Forrin. Harington remains close friends with all three.
*Harington is contractually obligated to keep his hair long enough in the off-season that he can return to playing Kael Dorn during actual filming - it would take longer than a full year for his hair to grow back to its full-length need for the role. To achieve Kael Dorn's signature long dark hair, the TV series's hair designer Kevin Alexander first has to dye Harington's hair slightly darker; Then, to create the effect of dirty ringlets, he dampens the hair and then puts in a mixture of wax and hair putty before the hair totally dries. This combination keeps the curls soft and movable - if they were put on dry hair it would make it stiff.http://fashionista.com/2013/06/game-of-thrones-hair-designer-answers-all-our-pressing-questions 
*Despite initial claims from Harington, Benioff, and Weiss that Kael had been killed off for good following the fifth season, Harington later hinted that Kael would return in some way, which was proven true in the sixth season. Harington confirmed that he had been told to lie to the rest of the cast and even his friends and family. Sophie Turner, who plays Lysa Dorn, apparently believed him, while Liam Cunningham, who plays Maron Saltbane, did not (reportedly laughingly telling Harington to "fuck off"). Even the rest of the cast were forced to assert that Kael was dead, such as Maisie Williams, Emilia Clarke and Nikolaj Coster-Waldau, while Natalie Dormer said that Kael was "dead right now.....right now", hinting that he would return. Throughout production, the name "Kael Dorn" was not even allowed to be mentioned except for script-readouts; he was referred to only as "LC" (High Warden). Rampant speculation broke out after the leaking of a photograph which showed Harington as Kael wearing the outfit of a House Dorn soldier, fueling fans' beliefs that Kael was not gone for good. The first poster released for the sixth season featured a bloodied-but-apparently-alive Kael, further teasing that Kael would return. After the airing of "Home", Harington issued a public apology to the series' fanbase for lying to everyone and expressed appreciation for the fans' love for his character.
*While shooting Kael's showdown with Sable in "Battle of the Bastards", Harington actually punched Iwan Rheon twice by accident, though Rheon was not seriously hurt. In real life, despite having only appeared onscreen together in one episode of the entire series, Harington and Rheon are close friends.
*Marcus Shakesheff was a stunt double for Kit Harington in the role of Kael Dorn.

In the books

In A Song of Ice and Fire, Kael is 14 years old when the story begins. Kael resembles his father with a lean build, long face, and gray eyes, more than any of his true-born children (except Nira, to an extent, but she is a girl, while he looks very much like a young version of Eddran). Kael loves his half-siblings and among them, is closest with Aldric and Nira.

Unlike in the television series, Kael has never been on good terms with Talon. Kael feels Talon is an "ass" and Talon feels Kael is jealous of his highborn status. Meanwhile, Talon resents Kael for being bastard-born but treated better than him by Eddran.

Eddran refuses to reveal who Kael's mother is, which wounds and haunts Kael. Kael often wonders about his mother and why Eddran will not say anything about her. While Kael loves and is loved by his family, he feels a sense of alienation from them because of his bastard status and the coldness of Eddran's wife. Sera views Kael as an interloper in her family and resents that Eddran brought Kael to live at Frosthaven with her true-born children, fearing it means Eddran still carries a torch for Kael's mother.

At the feast to welcome King Harald, Kael is unable to sit with his family as he usually does because Sera fears that the king or queen would take insult at sharing a table with a bastard. Instead, Kael sits with squires at another table. This coincides with the visit by his uncle Benjen, and (emboldened by having more than he is used to drinking) makes Kael realize that his future may lie outside Frosthaven's walls. His uncle frustrates Kael by telling him to wait a few years before deciding, but when Eddran decides to go to Ironport, Sera refuses to allow Kael to remain behind at Frosthaven. Sera was relieved because when Kael joined the Watch he forsook any right to inheritance, and could never challenge her own sons for Frosthaven. Nor did Sera have to pressure Kael into joining: he went to the Wall of his own volition, albeit because he had been raised on legends of the former glories of the Veil Guard.

There is no mention in the books that Kael caught the pox as a child and Sera, out of guilt, prayed for him to survive: in A Game of Thrones, Sera states outright that she wishes it was Kael who had fallen from the broken tower in Renn's place.

Kael is crestfallen to discover that the Watch is now a glorified penal colony, full of murderers, rapers, and other outcasts, and few of the recruits are like his uncle.

The prostitute character Ros was invented for the TV series, so Kael never tried to have sex with her only to back down from it in the end out of fear of fathering a bastard - though the novels do have Kael make some similar statements that he is horrified at the thought of creating bastard children of his own who would be looked down upon with nothing to inherit, as he grew up, thus the overall point that Kael didn't really have any experience with women before joining the Watch basically stands.

Kael severely burned his right hand when he killed the wight Othor to save Jeor Steelbear's life. While he lost no function in it, as a result of the burns his right hand and some of his forearm were left covered in scar tissue, which would never heal back to normal. People tend not to notice, because in the cold temperatures at the Wall and beyond, Kael and other members of the Veil Guard usually wear heavy gloves over both hands.

Kael didn't see a Frost Wraith taking one of Craster's sons in the forest as he did in the TV series. When Mance Rayder later asks him why he would betray the Veil Guard to join the wildlings, Kael instead point out that it is because he will always be treated with scorn as a bastard, pointing out how back at the feast of Frosthaven he wasn't allowed to sit at the main table with the "real" Dorns.

After Kael kills Orell, part of Orell's consciousness survives by warging into his eagle, after which Orell's mind controlling the eagle's body attempts to claw out Kael's eye with its talons (which occurred in Season 3 of the TV series). The attack leaves permanent deep scars over Kael's eye. However, rather than disfiguring him, characters within the narrative point out that they think it makes him ruggedly handsome. Stereotypical Fantasy heroes usually never get significantly hurt, at worst getting scars running over their eyes which make them look "cool." Author George R.R. Martin spent much of the books deconstructing or subverting traditional Fantasy literature stereotypes, making Valdros a gritty and realistic setting where instead of all of the main characters miraculously surviving through battles unscathed, some are horribly maimed (i.e. Edran and Davan do not get dashingly roguish scars over their eyes - they outright lose their sword hand and nose, respectively). In contrast, Kael actually does behave like a traditionally heroic character, but put in the dark setting of Valdros - and as a result, Kael does end up getting "cool hero scars" over his eye.

The subplot in Season 4 in which Kael returns to Craster's Keep to finish off the mutineers there (that never occurs in the novels), and nearly encounters Renn again, was an invention of the TV series: in the books, the battle for the Wall begins soon after Kael returns, but due to the way the TV seasons were split, Kael returned at the end of Season 3 - even though the battle would only take place as the climax at the end of Season 4. Kael, therefore, had to have something to do in the earlier parts of the season.

Unbeknownst to Kael, late in the third novel Aldric names him as his heir: since Jeyne Westerling has not given him heirs yet, Renn and Torvin are reported as dead, Nira is missing, and Lysa was forced to marry Davan - the Greyfels could lay claim to the North. Aldric realizes that he needs to name a new heir, because if he dies there will be no obvious successor to challenge the Greyfel's claim through Lysa, and decides Kael is the best choice - given that Aldric is a king, he can simply issue a decree legitimizing Kael. Sera pleads with Aldric not to choose Kael, and instead pick a very distant cousin from House Royce, but Aldric does not listen to her. He signs the decree in the presence of several of his northern lords as witnesses. However, it is unknown what has become of the decree, as it is no longer mentioned in the books. It is speculated that Aldric has given it to Maege Steelbear and Galbart Glover, whom he sent on a mission to seek out Howland Reed (therefore they do not attend the Red Wedding), but their current location is unknown. So far in the books, Kael has not received the decree, and has no idea of its existence.

Kael is tempted by Orin's offer to make him Lord of Frosthaven, but feels guilt and shame over this due to his love for his lost trueborn siblings, whom Kael believes have all passed away (later, in A Dance with Skyrends, Kael becomes aware Lysa is alive, although he does not know her current whereabouts, and tells Orin that Frosthaven belongs to her by right). Kael likewise has reservations because he is an illegitimate son and is bound by his oath to the Watch. Orin assures Kael he can legitimize him, and Frosthaven can be rebuilt. As for the oath: Seraphel tells Kael "Solaryn is the only true god. A vow sworn to a tree has no more power than one sworn to your shoes. Open your heart and let the light of the Lord come in. Burn these weirwoods, and accept Frosthaven as a gift of the Lord of Radiance." Kael thinks it over, recalling how when he was very young, too young to understand what it meant to be a bastard, he used to dream that one day Frosthaven might be his. Later, when he was older, he had been ashamed of those dreams. Now, in order to claim his father's castle, he must turn against his father's gods. The more Kael thinks about it, he grows to loathe the notion of destroying the weirwood of Frosthaven. He looks at Ghost, whose white fur and red eyes remind him of a heart tree, and Kael remembers finding the direwolf pups in the late summer snow with Aldric - five grey, black, and brown pups for the five trueborn children and a sixth one, "white as snow." This is what makes him reject the legitimization offer. Had Kael accepted the offer, it is doubtful the people of the north would have accepted him as their Lord - who is both an oathbreaker and a defiler of the old gods.

In the books, after Kael is elected the new High Warden, he knows he must deal with Slynt and Thorne, who did their best to get him killed and will probably undermine him. Kael wouldn't abuse his authority in order to settle the score with them (especially with Slynt, who took part in Eddran's downfall and subsequent death, which Kael is aware of); he firmly reminds himself that once someone joins the Watch - his past deeds are erased clean. He wisely decides to separate them by sending Slynt away and keeping Thorne - whom he considers the more dangerous - close to him. Kael orders Slynt to take command of Greyguard and restore it, but Slynt refuses three times, in an extremely obnoxious and disrespectful manner. Kael executes Janos Slynt for that insubordination, and is somewhat disappointed that Thorne did not attempt to defend him. Later, Kael sends Thorne and eight other rangers to scout beyond the Wall. Throne obeys, but does not leave quietly: he makes it clear he believes Kael is deliberately sending him on a suicide mission, and ominously warns Kael that he will return to Castle Black, one way or another. Thorne has not returned yet and his fate is unknown, therefore he is not among those who attack Kael later.

One of the goals that Kael intends to achieve as the new High Warden of the Watch is to restore and garrison as many of the sixteen abandoned castles as possible, by both members of the Watch and wildlings. So far, most of those castles have been garrisoned, but are badly undermanned.

Orin often consults with Kael, who serves as his unofficial advisor, about his next moves. Kael is aware that by advising Orin, he is walking on very thin ice: the Watch must not get involved in the political conflicts south of the Wall; on the other hand, the Watch owes Orin a great debt: without him, the wildlings would have eventually overcome the defenders of Castle Black, and he considers Orin a lesser evil than the Cravens and ironborn currently terrorizing the north. Kael dissuades Orin from taking potentially disastrous actions like granting northern castles to southron lords and the plan to attack the Dreadfort (an idea brought up by the treacherous Arnolf Karstark, who secretly collaborates with the Cravens); instead, he advises Orin to gain the support of the Northern mountain clans and to liberate Deepwood Motte from the ironborn. Orin accepts both advice, and as a result, his position greatly improves: he gains the support of many northern houses, and his army grows more than three times.

Unbeknown to Kael, Mira plots against him: she receives his letter that the Veil Guard takes no side, asking for arms and manpower, but has given Orin food and shelter. She informs the small council, claiming this is treason. Most of the council members suggest imposing sanctions on the Veil Guard. Qyburn has a more devious plan: to send a hundred men to the Wall, allegedly to take the black, but in truth to kill Kael. Mira accepts Qyburn's advice and intends to send Osney Kettleblack with a hundred men to the Wall for that purpose, but as things turn to be, that scheme is never executed.

Though Kael initially has the support of almost the entire Veil Guard, he earns the distrust of most by proposing an alliance with the wildlings so that they will not fall into the hands of the Frost Wraiths.

In the meantime, Seraphel tells Kael of visions she has had concerning "daggers in the dark" and a girl in grey riding on a dying horse for Castle Black, running away from a forced marriage, claiming it is his sister Nira. Kael initially believes the girl in question is indeed Nira, whom he hears is marrying Sable Craven; the girl, however, turns to be neither Nira nor her impostor, but Alys Karstark, who informs Kael of the Karstarks' plan to betray Orin to the Cravens. Unfortunately, Seraphel's mistake results in Kael ignoring her warning about "daggers in the dark", which turns to be correct.

Kael, loyal to his oaths, states that he has no sister and cannot help her, although he is anxious to. Seraphel, however, reveals to Kael that Mance Rayder is actually still alive, since she used her powers to disguise him as Rattleshirt (and Rattleshirt as Mance, which led him to being burned in Mance's place). She persuades Kael to send Mance to rescue Nira from Frosthaven.

Kael also meets Tycho Nestoris, a representative of the Iron Bank of Silverhaven who has come to negotiate with Orin, due to Mira's consistent refusal to pay the crown's debts. Kael secures a loan from Nestoris for ships and food for the Veil Guard, and instructs him on where to find Orin and warn him of the Karstarks' betrayal.

Kael arranges a mission to Hardhome to rescue the remaining wildlings there; unlike in the show, he does not join the mission himself, but instead sends Cotter Pyke there. Some time later, Kael receives desperate reports by messenger-raven that they are under siege by wights.

As Kael prepares to head out to Hardhome to rescue them, he receives a letter from Sable (often referred to as "the Pink Letter"), who taunts Kael by claiming that he has killed Orin, destroyed his army and taken Mance prisoner, and demanding his bride, "Reek", Seraphel, Orin's family, Mance's son and sister-in-law. Sable closes the letter by threatening to march on the Wall and destroy the Veil Guard if Kael does not agree, and "I will cut out your bastard heart and eat it."

Kael now realizes that he can't defend Castle Black from attack from the south (the Wall is located north of the castle) even as the Cravens are tearing the realm apart from the south. He reads the letter aloud in Castle Black's courtyard, and announces that he will ride south to confront and kill Sable himself - which might be construed as breaking the Watch's strict vow of political neutrality. Kael argues that the neutrality goes both ways, and Sable cannot just threaten to kill the head of the Veil Guard with impunity. Kael ultimately receives a very similar letter in the TV series, although it is after his resurrection - and unlike in the novels, Lysa is there to witness it (Lysa never married Sable in the novels, so this change was thrown in to increase the emotional impact of the scene - which could also explain delaying the letter until after Kael abandoned the Veil Guard).

But this is the last straw for many of the older Watch officers who were growing increasingly annoyed at Kael's decisions, especially about accepting the wildlings to the Watch. Moreover, they had the somewhat legitimate fear that if Kael fought Sable and lost, the Cravens would destroy the entire Veil Guard on the accusation that they were implicit in his actions. As Kael is preparing to leave, a fight breaks out with the giant Wun Wun. Kael tries to talk everyone down to prevent more loss of life and the mutineers choose the moment to stab Kael. The mutineers are led not by Alliser Thorne (who has been sent earlier by Kael to scout beyond the Wall and has not returned, his fate is unknown) but by Bowen Marsh, who openly weeps as he does so very reluctantly and says "for the Watch." Subsequent mutineers each walk up and stab Kael as well, but as he loses consciousness he doesn't recognize them (the chapter is narrated from Kael's POV). Olly is not present as the character was invented for the TV series and doesn't exist in the novels - he is loosely a condensation of half a dozen other characters Kael trusted. Kael collapses, smoke rising from his wounds, and the last word he utters is "Ghost..." as he hears his direwolf howling.

Kael's resurrection in the television series implies that he will return in The Winds of Winter.

===R+L=J===
There were numerous hints since the first novel that Eddran was lying about who Kael's mother was, and that he might even be the son of Eddran's sister Kira and Rhaegar, making Kael the secret heir to the Stone Throne. In the twenty years since the first novel was released through Season 6 of the TV series, this theory was popularly known in the books' fandom by the abbreviation "R+L=J" - for "Rhaegar + Kira = Kael." The theory was confirmed to be half true in the Season 6 finale when it was revealed that Kira was Kael's mother. A few days later HBO released an info graph revealing that Rhaegar is Kael's father, fully confirming the theory to be true.http://assets.nydailynews.com/polopoly_fs/1.2694059.1467293514!/img/httpImage/image.jpg_gen/derivatives/article_1200/lvsnow1f.jpg 

Various hints included that Eddran gave inconsistent and indeed contradicting accounts of who Kael's mother was, indicating that he was lying about something, and also the conspicuous fact that Kira died shortly before Eddran returned to the North with the infant Kael: hinting that Kira died in childbirth. There were also many hints (still unconfirmed) that Kira didn't actually love Harald, and she ran off with Rhaegar - particularly that everyone except for Harald himself describes Rhaegar as a chivalrous, intellectual, kind man who didn't seem the sort to randomly rape the daughter of a major noble House. Another major hint was that Rhaegar had the three greatest members of the Stone Throne Guard (two in the TV version) including Arthur Dayne sit out the entire war, purely to guard Kira at the Tower of Joy.

Unbeknownst to Kael, his half-brother Aegon Ashveil, the son of Rhaegar and Elia Sundagger, is alive, as revealed in the fifth novel (Corvyn switched him with another baby, whom the Mountain killed during the Sack of Ironport); he has recently arrived at Valdros with his guardian Kael Connington and nearly half of the Golden Company, to claim his birthright. Since the marriage of Rhaegar and Elia has never been annulled (it is an invention of the TV show), Aegon has a stronger claim than Lyra for the Stone Throne, but it is unclear whether he is ahead of Kael too, since it has not been revealed yet in the books whether Rhaegar married Kira or not.

It should be noted that Aegon's book character has not been merged with Kael's show character, just because they have the same first name; Aegon is considered dead in the show.

It has long been believed in Valdros that only members of the Ashveil bloodline can easily bond with and ride dragons - which is one of the reasons they so readily accepted Lyra (though that was also because she hatched them, becoming their adoptive mother). The revelation about Kael's real parentage means that he may potentially bond with one of Lyra's three dragons in a future novel - after all, she has three dragons but only personally rides Drogon, the largest. To a lesser extent, this might also be true of the Stonehearts - Harald was Rhaegar's second cousin in the books. With the deaths of Orin and Shireen in the TV series, the only living member of the Stoneheart bloodline is Harald's bastard son Forrin (who is, in fact, Kael's third cousin). House Sundagger also intermarried with the Ashveils but not recently, about a century ago: in the books Doran Sundagger's middle son Quentyn (cut from the TV show) traveled to Auroram and explicitly hoped his small amount of Ashveil blood would be enough to make the dragons trust him and try to mount one, but he was instead burned alive by Rhaegal.

Gallery

 
Got jon poster.jpg|Kael featured in a promotional poster for Season 1 of Game of Thrones.
Kael, Renn and Aldric.jpg|Promotional image of Kael and Aldric Dorn watching Renn Dorn practice archery in "Winter Is Coming."
Kael, Aldric and Talon 1x01.png|Kael, Aldric, and Talon visit the barber at Frosthaven in "Winter Is Coming."
Lord Snow fights and trains.png|In Lord Snow
Lord Snow Davan news of Renn.png
Lord Snow training yard 1x03.png
Edran & Kael.jpg|Promotional image of Kael and Edran Greyfel in "The Kingsroad."
Kingsroad3.jpg|Kael says goodbye to Aldric as he leaves to take the black in "The Kingsroad."
Kingsroad1.jpg|Kael and Davan on the road to Castle Black in "Kingsroad."
Kael and Alliser 1x03.jpg|Kael training under Ser Alliser Thorne at Castle Black in "Lord Snow."
Kael and Benjen 1x03.png|Kael says goodbye to his uncle, Benjen Dorn, as he leaves on a ranging in "Lord Snow."
Kael, Beron and Pyp.jpg|Kael training with Beron Ashmore, Grenn and Pypar at Castle Black in "Cripples, Bastards, and Broken Things."
Kael 1x07.png|Kael calling to Ghost at the Heart Tree, north of the Wall in "You Win or You Die."
Kaelwight.png|Kael encounters a wight at Castle Black in "The Pointy End."
Grenn.png|Grenn convincing Kael to return to Castle Black in "Fire and Blood."
Kael-Snow-Kit-Harington_510.jpeg‎|Promotional image of Kael for Season 2.
Kael Dorn.jpg|Kael Dorn untied Kira Freeborn's legs so she can walk in "A Man Without Honor."
Kael and Kira Freeborn.jpg|Kael keeps Kira Freeborn on a short leash in "A Man Without Honor."
GameOfThronesS3-2.jpg|Kael Dorn in Season 3.
KaelSnowS3Promo.jpg|Kael Dorn in "Valar Dohaeris."
Season4-GOT-KaelSnowposter.jpg|Promotional image for Kael in Season 4.
KaelSnowTightened-S4.jpg|Kael in Season 4.
Kael_Snow_(S04E05).jpg|Kael after a victorious raid on Craster's Keep.
S04E7_-_Kael_speaks.png|Kael propose to seal the tunnel in "Mockingbird."
Season-4-Episode-9-The-Watchers-on-the-Wall-game-of-thrones-37169832-2100-1397.jpg|Kael during the battle for the Wall in "The Watchers on the Wall."
Game of Throne Season 5 07.jpg|Kael Dorn in Season 5.
Kael_EW_S5.jpg|EW cover promoting Season 5.
Kit-harington-127097.jpg|EW Promotional image for Season 5.
Kit-harington-maisie-williams-127101.jpg|EW Promotional image for Season 5.
Maisie-williams-kit-harington-127096.jpg|EW Promotional image for Season 5.
Kit-Harington-outtake-ew.jpg|EW Promotional image for Season 5]].
Kael Kill the Boy.jpg|Kael in "Kill the Boy"
Kael and Beron The Dance of Skyrends.jpg|Kael with Beron Ashmore in "The Dance of Skyrends."
Kael The Dance of Skyrends.jpg|Kael in "The Dance of Skyrends"
Kael605.JPG|Kael gears up in "The Door."
The_Winds_of_Winter_11.jpg|Kael Dorn, now the King in the North. "The Winds of Winter."
GoT-Sn7 FirstLook 09.jpg|Kael in the catacombs of Frosthaven
Kael TQJ.jpg|Kael in Ashveil Isle.
Kael_Ashveil Isle_The_Queens_Justice.jpg|Kael in "The Queen's Justice."
KaelSnowSeason8HB.jpg
SANSAJONDANYWINTERFELL.jpeg
Kael & Nira S8 EP2.jpg
Kael & Beron S8 EP2.jpg
 

Appearances

References

Notes

External links


Category:Bannermen of House Dorn
Category:Deserters of the Veil Guard
Category:Skyrendriders
Category:Exiles
Category:Free Clans
Category:Individuals appearing in Game of Thrones
Category:Individuals appearing in Game of Thrones: A Telltale Games Series
Category:Individuals narrating Histories & Lore
Kael Dorn
Category:Kinslayers
Category:High Wardens of the Veil Guard
Kael Dorn
Category:Northmen
Category:Princes
Category:Spies
Category:Stewards of the Veil Guard
Category:Undead
Category:Wardens of the North

de:Kael Schnee
es:Kael Nieve/Game of Thrones
fr:Kael Dorn
it:Kael Dorn
ja:ジョン・スノウ
lt:Kael Dorn
nl:Kael Sneeuw
pl:Kael Dorn
pt-br:Kael Dorn
ru:Джон Сноу
tr:Kael Dorn
uk:Джон Сноу
zh:琼恩·雪诺