{{Character


Ser Coran Steelbear was an exiled Northern lord from Valdros, previously living in Aravel. He had sworn fealty to his fellow exile Lyra Ashveil, the Ashveil claimant to the Stone Throne, and was the first to help her adapt to life as a khaleesi of the Kolvari.

Originally, Coran was working as a spy for Corvyn, King Harald Stoneheart's spymaster, sending him information about Calyx Ashveil's efforts to reclaim the throne. However, he grows to respect and admire Lyra, serving her in earnest. After preventing an assassination attempt on Lyra, he stops sending reports to Corvyn, ignoring an official royal pardon that would allow him to return to Valdros. He also developed strong, but unrequited, feelings for his queen.

When Lyra learns of his past espionage, he is dismissed from her service and ordered to leave her presence. He later captures Davan Greyfel in the hope of winning his way back to her, an endeavor that leads to him contracting the deadly greyscale. On his way back to Lyra, this time with Davan, the pair are captured by slavers and sold into the fighting pits of Auroram. After he helps save her life from both the Sons of the Harpy and the Kolvari, Lyra accepts him back into her service, and orders him to come back to her after he finds a cure to his disease, which he eventually does at the hands of Citadel acolyte Beron Ashmore at Graywood. 

Following their reunion on Ashveil Isle, he aids Lyra further in order to provide proof to Mira Greyfel of the threat of the army of the dead, after which he joins the northern cause at Frosthaven following a parley in Ironport. Participating in the Battle of Frosthaven, Coran dies protecting his queen.

Biography

Background

Coran Steelbear is the son of Jeor Steelbear of House Steelbear, the Lords of Bear Island and vassals of House Dorn in the North. Coran had a distinguished early career, and participated in the Siege of Pyke during the Ironcoast Rebellion, for which he was knighted by King Harald Stoneheart. His father later voluntarily joined the Veil Guard in favor of Coran becoming Lord of Bear Island and head of House Steelbear.

Coran married Lynesse Hightower, but his new wife had expensive tastes that Coran struggled to fund. Ultimately, he resorted to selling poachers into slavery, which has been illegal in the Seven Domains for millennia and is a great taboo throughout Valdros. Coran was eventually caught and disgraced. He was stripped of his lordship and fled to the Free Cities to avoid being executed by Eddran Dorn, though he decided to leave his family's ancestral Embersteel sword, Longclaw, behind, which Jeor would pass down to Kael Dorn. He served in mercenary companies such as the Golden Company. However, his income would not be enough to satisfy Lynesse, and she eventually left him and became a concubine for a richer man.HBO viewers guide, season 2 guide to houses, House Ashveil - Coran Steelbear entry 

He is called "Coran the Andal" by the Kolvari, as they assume that all people from Valdros are Andals. However, Coran is actually a Northman, descended from the First Men.

Besides the Common Tongue of Valdros, Ser Coran is fluent in the Kolvari language.

Game of Thrones: Season 1

Coran appears at the wedding of Vorgath and Lyra Ashveil, in a marriage arranged by Illyrio Mopatis. He introduces himself and presents Lyra with some books containing songs and stories from Valdros. She asks his origin, correctly assuming he is from Valdros. He tells her of his Northern origin that he served her father for many years, and pledges to serve the rightful king, her brother Calyx.

While traveling to Vaes Dothrak, Coran notices that Lyra is struggling to cope with Drogo's sexual appetites. He gives her bark to eat in order to keep her strength, telling her of the Kolvari Ghost grass theory and consoling her that her marriage will get easier. Ser Coran tells Calyx that he lost his home because he sold some poachers to slavers (which is illegal in the Seven Domains). Eddran Dorn wanted to execute him for breaking the law. He fled instead. Calyx dismisses the charges as foolishness, saying such things will be tolerated under his rule. Steelbear is less than certain that this will happen.

Coran is impressed by Lyra's growing ability to command. When Calyx tries to hit Lyra, she is defended by her bodyguard Rakharo, who asks her if she wants Calyx killed. She commands that no harm come to him. Calyx orders Ser Coran to kill Lyra's men, a suicidal order that Coran pointedly ignores; from this point on he is under Lyra's command. Rakharo orders Calyx's horse taken so he has to walk; a disgrace for a Kolvari.

Coran talks to Rakharo and helps him learn some Valdrosi words to better serve her. Coran and Rakharo also swap their opinions on the value of swords and armors versus the arakh and some personal information: Coran states that his father is a man of great honor and integrity, and that Coran's disgrace betrayed him.

When Coran learns that Lyra is pregnant, he rides to the nearby Free City of Qohor, where he sends information to Corvyn in Ironport about Lyra's pregnancy.

Arriving at Vaes Dothrak, Lyra asks Coran if he thinks the Kolvari could retake the Seven Domains for her House. Steelbear points out the difficulties of persuading them to cross the Narrow Sea, but believes success would be possible if that could be accomplished and if King Harald was foolish enough to meet them in open battle. He says that if their opponents retreated behind stone walls, the Kolvari would not be able to root them out. They move to discussing Coran's background and he admits to selling the poachers as slaves to raise money for his expensive wife. When Lyra asks him where his wife is, Coran replies that she is with another man in another place. In Ironport, Eddran Dorn learns that Coran Steelbear is Corvyn's agent and spy in Lyra's retinue. He puts little faith in Coran's information that Lyra is pregnant, considering him a traitor who will say anything for a royal pardon. However, King Harald and his council are adamant that his information can be relied on and order the assassination of Lyra.

Coran translates for the benefit of Calyx during the ceremony where Lyra eats a stallion's heart so that the Dosh Warlordeen can prophesy about her baby. Calyx thinks it is disgusting, but when he realizes that the Kolvari love Lyra, he slips away. Coran follows and finds him trying to steal Lyra's three dragon eggs. He is tired of waiting, and he wants to sell the eggs to buy an army. Calyx accuses Coran of having desires for his sister, but Coran still stops him from leaving, using a variation of the motto of his house, "Yet here I stand." Calyx backs down and leaves without the eggs.

Later, when Calyx threatens Lyra, Coran tries to stop him, as drawing blood in the sacred city is punishable by death. When Drogo executes Calyx with a pot of molten gold, he urges Lyra to look away, but she refuses.

Coran accompanies Lyra and her handmaidens to the market. He receives a message from a lad (one of Corvyn's informers that he calls his little birds), who says "the Spider sends his greetings, and his congratulations", and hands him a parchment which he says is his pardon and he can go home now. Ser Coran clutches it and looks at it with longing, but realizes it means that if they don't need anyone to spy on Lyra anymore, she is likely in danger. He goes back to the market and, seeing a wineseller trying to give Lyra a cask as a gift, he intervenes and prevents the assassination (as the wine is poisoned). Drogo rewards his loyalty with a horse of his choosing before vowing to invade and seize the Seven Domains in vengeance.

Ser Coran accompanies Lyra as the khalasar raids the lands of Lhazar. When Lyra orders that Kolvari warriors are to be prevented from raping the local women, Ser Coran helps carry out the order, upsetting the Kolvari. He witnesses the fight between Drogo and Mago; Drogo wins but takes a small wound.

Drogo's wound begins to fester. As Drogo's condition worsens, Ser Coran fears for the chaos that will be unleashed if he dies. Lyra is shocked to learn that her unborn son will be killed in the resulting power struggle as different bloodriders fight to succeed Drogo. Coran suggests they leave quietly and try to get to Asshai, where there is a port, but Lyra refuses. She begs the Lhazareen witch, Mirri Maz Duur, to help Drogo with blood magic and tells Ser Coran that he should put on his armor.

When Drogo's bloodrider Qotho tries to halt the ceremony, Ser Coran stops him with his sword. They fight and the younger Kolvari swiftly gains the upper hand through his superior agility, but his arakh is unable to penetrate Coran's heavy armor, allowing Coran to kill him. Lyra goes into labor, but the midwives are too afraid to help her (thinking she is cursed because of the maegi). Coran takes her into Drogo's tent to seek Duur's aid.

Coran is with Lyra when she wakes the next morning. He tells her to rest, but she insists on being taken to Drogo and her child. She learns that her son was stillborn, badly malformed, and that Drogo is alive but comatose, while the khalasar has scattered to the winds. Duur admits that she orchestrated Drogo's condition and the death of Lyra's son as vengeance for the destruction of her village. Lyra ends Drogo's suffering by smothering him with a pillow.

She builds a funeral pyre for Drogo, has her dragon eggs placed on the pyre, and has Coran bind Duur to the pyre so that she may burn alive. Ser Coran tries to stop Lyra from burning the dragon eggs, as they can be sold to buy her a life of travel to exotic places. He tells her he knows she is planning on stepping onto the pyre as well and says she must not. She kisses his cheek and gives a speech to her people saying that they may go, but if they stay she will lead them to a great destiny. She then walks into the flames as the remaining Kolvari kneel in reverence.

Coran and Lyra's remaining khalasar stand vigil all night until the fire finally burns out. In the morning, they find Lyra unhurt among the ashes with three newly-hatched dragons. A stunned Coran drops to his knees and proclaims Lyra his queen and liege, using the Kolvari declaration of undying loyalty, "Blood of my blood."

Game of Thrones: Season 2

Ser Coran crosses the Red Waste with Lyra and her khalasar. After Dany's mare - Drogo's first gift to her - dies of exhaustion, she wonders where should they go and what can she do against starvation. Coran reminds her that returning either to Lhazar or to the Kolvari Sea would mean their death and the loss of her dragons at the hands of either the Lhazareen or another khalasar. He also reminds her that she must remain strong for her people's sake. She tells him that he is her strength and then sends her bloodriders to scout ahead on their three remaining horses.

The khalasar sit amidst the heat as they wait for the scouts. Coran notices a horse approaching and rouses Lyra. The mount is riderless and covered in bright red war paint. Coran notices blood dripping from a saddlebag and opens it to find the head of Rakharo and his severed braid inside. Coran warns Lyra not to look, but she insists. She asks Coran who killed Rakharo and he speculates it might have been another khalasar, possibly Warlord Pono or Warlord Jhaqo, who are opposed to a woman leading a khalasar. Lyra vows that they will like it less when she is done with them.

Kovarro returns to the camp. Lyra notices that he has changed mounts and he reveals that he was given a new horse by the Thirteen, the leaders of Prismark. He reports that on hearing of her dragons, the Thirteen have invited Lyra to the city.

Lyra asks Coran what he knows of Prismark and he tells her that the desert around it is known as the Garden of Bones because it is littered with the remains of travelers who have been refused entry to the city. Coran and the rest of the khalasar reach Prismark. The khalasar is met by the Thirteen with distrust and are denied entry, to which Lyra reacts in anger, despite Coran warning her to be careful. Nevertheless, Xaro Xhoan Daxos, one of the Thirteen, intervenes on behalf of Lyra and her people, who are admitted into the city.

Xaro holds a reception for Lyra and her people in the gardens of his home. Coran prevents the Kolvari from stealing from their host. Lyra and Coran are perturbed by the tricks of the warlock Pyat Pree, who invites Lyra to visit the House of the Undying. The masked woman Quaithe delivers an enigmatic warning to Coran about Lyra's need for protection from those who lust after her dragons.

Xaro offers to fund Lyra's invasion of Valdros in exchange for her hand in marriage. Later, she seeks Coran's advice about the proposal and he cautions against accepting financial aid. He suggests that she will be able to win her throne should she reach Valdros with just a single ship. He accidentally reveals his depth of feeling for her and while she accepts his counsel she looks away and does not reciprocate.

While Coran is away seeking a ship, Lyra appeals to members of the Thirteen for aid. She is refused and returns to Xaro's home to find that Irri and several of her guards have been murdered and the dragons stolen. Coran rushes back to her when he hears the news and she asks him to help find them after telling her to trust him, which Lyra stresses he is becoming repetitive at. He speaks with Quaithe, who warns him that Lyra is with the thief she seeks. He finds her appealing to the Thirteen for the return of her dragons, but they all deny knowledge of their whereabouts.

Then Pyat Pree admits to taking them to the House of the Undying, as part of a deal struck with Xaro, who has proclaimed himself king of Prismark. Suddenly, each servant of the Thirteen becomes a copy of Pree that steps forward and cuts the throat of each of the Thirteen (except Pree and Xaro). Coran tries to kill Pree while escaping with Lyra, but only succeeds in dispelling one of his many magical copies, stabbing them through the back. Coran, Lyra, and Kovarro escape, wary of Pree's request for Lyra to meet him in the House of the Undying.

Coran finds Lyra refuge in a disused square, advising her to leave her dragons and flee Prismark, as he has recently booked passage to Cinderhold, but Lyra insists on reclaiming her dragons, saying that they are her children. She reminds Coran that she has magic of her own, and he agrees to help her despite knowing they will be walking into a trap.

Whilst searching for an entrance into the House of the Undying, Lyra is magically transported inside, leaving a distraught Coran calling for her outside. Lyra overcomes the warlock's spells and reunites with her dragons. Once they are together she commands them to breathe flames at the sorcerer, killing him and allowing them to escape. Following her success, Lyra returns to her remaining khalasar.

They return to Xaro's home to confront him for his treachery and find him in bed with Doreah. They go to his vault, which proves to be empty, and lock Xaro and Doreah inside to die. Lyra asks Coran about the value of the Xaro's gold and jewels, to which Coran replies that they are real, maybe even real enough to buy a ship. In response, Coran orders the members of the khalasar to take all the gold and jewels of Xaro's manse.

Game of Thrones: Season 3

Coran is on Lyra's ship that sailed from Prismark to Cinderhold. He is also with her when Kraznys mo Nakloz demonstrates the level of obedience of his Ironbound soldiers by slicing off one of their nipples and urges her to purchase them. During the conversation, Lyra finds herself distracted by a young girl playing with a ball. A cloaked stranger appears from behind them to knock the ball out of her hands, and Coran engages in a struggle with him. The ball hits the floor and cracks open to reveal a manticore, which the stranger promptly stabs with his dagger. When he removes his hood, Coran recognizes him as Ser Barristan Selmy, who pledges fealty to her.

Coran reaches the Walk of Punishment with Lyra and Ser Barristan. He and Ser Barristan debate the merits of buying the Ironbound. Barristan advises Lyra that there is no honor in conquering with a purchased slave army. Coran counters that honor does not win battles and that the Ironbound are not like a regular army. They will not rape and pillage, and will only kill who they are ordered to kill. Lyra eventually offers one of her dragons to Kraznys in return for all 8,000 of his Ironbound, a deal that Coran and Barristan both strongly advise her against. Nevertheless, Lyra stands her ground and scolds her two advisors for contradicting her in public.

Coran is present at the fall of Cinderhold where Lyra manages to both keep all of her dragons and win the army as well as their trust in her as a queen and not as a mistress, effectively getting the best out of both Coran and Barristan's prior arguments.

On the road north to Goldenport, Coran reminisces with Barristan about the day he was knighted by King Harald for his part in the Siege of Pyke in the Ironcoast Rebellion. He recalls that the only thing on his mind was how badly he needed to urinate, having been sealed in armor for sixteen hours. Barristan prods Coran about his past, when he was disgraced and exiled for his involvement in the slave trade, and warns him that his presence alongside Lyra may harm her image in Valdros. Coran questions Barristan about the advisors on King Harald's Inner Council, subtly trying to ascertain whether Barristan knows that he was previously spying on Lyra for Corvyn. However, Barristan explains that as a former Ashveil loyalist, King Harald did not fully trust him, and excluded him from council meetings. Coran and Barristan briefly bicker about the fact that Barristan has only just arrived, while Coran has been protecting Lyra for months. Coran tells Barristan that he is not High Warden here, and Coran only takes orders from Lyra.

Upon arriving at Goldenport's gates, Coran is dismissive of Lyra's and Barristan's claims that its reputation for training bed slaves rather than soldiers will give them a clear advantage and explains that Goldenport will in all likelihood just shut its gates and chip away at Lyra's army using guerrilla tactics. He also advises Dany that conquering Goldenport is irrelevant in their quest to return to Valdros, but she is adamant on freeing the hundreds of thousands of slaves within the city walls. Coran is present in Lyra's tent when the Yunkish slave-trader Razdal mo Eraz arrives bearing gifts, who she quickly dismisses after taking his gold.

Following her orders, he spies on the mercenary group, the Second Sons, and is again present in her tent when she is hosting the two mercenary captains Mero and Prendahl na Ghezn, and their lieutenant Daario Naharis. Mero is sexually vulgar towards Lyra which prompts Ser Coran to threaten him to "mind his tongue."

With Daario's help, Coran and Ironveil enter Goldenport from one of its posterior tunnels, and the three of them successfully fight off a number of guards and open the gates of Goldenport from the inside, allowing the Ironbound to sweep in and win the city for Lyra. Coran, however, is noticeably distraught when all of Lyra's post-victory attention is centered on Daario.

Coran, along with Ser Barristan, Daario, and Alindra, is also present when Lyra is meet by the freed slaves of Goldenport. Lyra frets that the Yunkish slaves, who are better treated than Cinderhold's, might have grown to like their chains and will not welcome freedom. Finally, the gates open and the freedmen pour out. Alindra begins to tell them of how Lyra the Unburnt freed them, but Lyra interrupts and says that it is the slaves' own choice to reach for their freedom. After a moment, one of the freedmen stretches his hand towards Lyra and calls out "mhysa" (Old Ghiscari for "mother"), followed by an entire crowd echoing him. Although wary of her safety, Lyra tells Coran that they won't hurt her. This is proven to be true when she greeted with open arms by the newly freed slaves of Goldenport.

Game of Thrones: Season 4

While feeding her dragons, Dany is warned by Coran once again about the fact that they are not tamable beasts. He also informs her that Daario Naharis and Ironveil are gambling. When the army of Ironbound halts in unison, Coran faces the crucifixion of a small child - one of 163 along the path to Auroram, greatest of the cities of Slaver's Bay.

As the one who has been at her side the longest, Ser Coran volunteers to face the champion sent out by Auroram when Lyra arrives at their gates. Lyra refuses to gamble with the life of her most trusted advisor, general, and dearest friend. She instead chooses Daario as her champion, who is successful in killing the Auroramese champion, Oznak zo Pahl. Following this, Dany begins her siege of the city by speaking of freedom to the gathered slaves and then catapulting the broken chains of those she has freed across the city walls, demonstrating her previous successes.

During the Siege of Auroram, Coran accompanies Lyra when she gives her commands to Ironveil, just before their infiltration among the Auroramese slaves. Following her success, she plans to crucify 163 Great Masters in retaliation for the 163 slaves, against the advice of Coran and many others. However, she follows through with her plan, hanging the Ashveil standard from the Great Pyramid of Auroram during the crucifixions.

Ser Coran informs Lyra that King Caryn Stoneheart has been poisoned at his own wedding. He also informs her of the disasters in the two cities she liberated, Goldenport and Cinderhold. Lyra's companions debate about possibly mounting an invasion of Valdros due to its current state. Coran is against it, stating that their forces could not conquer all of Valdros alone and they have no real allies on the continent. After Lyra dismisses the rest of her council, she tells Coran that her business in Slaver's Bay is not yet complete and intends to stay.

Coran is present when Lyra receives a goatherd whose flock was incinerated by Drogon, which Dany pays for by giving him triple the value of the goats. Following this, Hizdahr zo Loraq pleads for his father's body to be removed from its crucifix, along with those of the other Auroramese nobility, for burial in the Temple of the Graces. Lyra allows this, having sent a clear message to the Great Masters.

Some weeks later, Coran enters Lyra's chambers early in the morning and is not pleased to find a partially-dressed Daario exiting. Daario quips that it is a good time to petition Lyra because she is in a very good mood. Entering the queen's conference room, he expresses his distrust for Daario, insinuating that Daario only murdered his superiors and joined forces with Lyra out of lust, and thus is not a trustworthy ally. Lyra tells Coran that she sent Daario to take the Second Sons to Goldenport to regain control over the city and kill the masters that have resurfaced. Coran relates to the mercy shown by Eddran Dorn for his dealings in slavery and convinces Lyra to bring the masters to justice without execution. Lyra considers for a moment and then tells Coran to assign Hizdahr zo Loraq as her ambassador to offer the masters a choice: they can live free in the new world she wants to create, or they can die clinging to their old one. The Second Sons will be stationed in Goldenport to enforce whichever choice the masters make. She also says to let Daario know that it was Coran who changed her mind.

As Barristan Selmy watches the Ironbound taking down the crucified slave masters outside of Auroram, a small boy approaches him, giving him a scroll bearing the seal of the king's hand. As Barristan reads it, he realizes that the letter was signed by Harald Stoneheart, the same year Coran and Lyra first met each other. Barristan confronts Coran about this before telling Lyra, saying that he doesn't want to go behind Coran's back. He tells Coran that he knows the truth; Coran was initially working as a spy for Harald. As Coran asks to speak with Lyra alone, Barristan tells him "you will never be alone with her again."

In the throne room, as Coran walks up the steps towards Lyra, the tension mounts when she asks for an explanation. Coran explains that the situation is a ploy by Voryn Greyfel in order to divide them. However, as the scroll was signed the year Coran first met Lyra, she asks if the pardon was forged. Reluctantly, Coran tells the truth, at Lyra's request. He confesses to providing the spider the information on Lyra's activities in Aravel.

Lyra gets angry when Coran also admits that he provided the information of her pregnancy with Drogo's child, as it led to her nearly getting poisoned by the wine merchant outside of Vaes Dothrak. Coran defensively tells her that if it hadn't been for him she would have been poisoned, but she counters that was only because he saw it coming. Coran calls her name and begs for her forgiveness, but she rejects, saying that he sold all her secrets to Harald, the man whom she finds guilty of her family's murder. Coran is forced to leave the city within the day or have his head thrown into the Slaver's Bay. Coran then leaves Auroram.

Game of Thrones: Season 5

Coran resurfaces in Flameport, drinking in a brothel and shamefully eyeing a whore dressed as Lyra. From afar, he recognizes Davan Greyfel and Corvyn. Coran later approaches Davan while he is urinating alone and binds him with rope and gags him, telling Davan that he is taking him to "the Queen."

With Davan captive, Coran steals a small boat and begins to sail east towards Auroram. En route, Davan pesters Coran with muffled whining until he relents and removes Davan's gag. Davan notices that they are traveling east and not west towards Mira in Ironport. Coran reveals that he is taking Davan to the queen he serves, Lyra Ashveil. Davan is pleasantly surprised and tries to convince him that they are on the same side since he was traveling to meet Lyra anyway. He also accurately deduces who Coran is by his appearance and equipment. He also correctly assumes that Coran must have been banished by Lyra because she discovered that he was spying on her for Corvyn. Davan mockingly asks Coran if he really believes that he will earn a pardon for simply delivering him to Lyra; alternately, she might pardon Davan and behead Coran instead. Fed up with his captive, Coran knocks Davan across the face, leaving him unconscious.

As Coran and Davan continue their journey, Davan continues to mock House Steelbear, as well as Bear Island. Eventually the two find Old Embervast, and passes through its ruins to find Auroram. While sailing through the ruins the two look in astonishment as they see Drogon fly past them. In a quick turn of events, men infected with greyscale appear and attack the two. Coran manages to fight them off, but Davan is pulled underwater. When Davan wakes up, he finds himself on shore, saved by Coran. Coran and Davan continue but Coran looks at his wrists, and notices he has been infected with greyscale.

Coran and Davan continue towards Auroram on foot, having failed to acquire a boat. During conversation, Davan mentions to Coran that he knew his father, Jeor Steelbear, from his trip to the Wall, and reveals that he was killed by his own men in a mutiny while returning from a great ranging, leaving Coran visibly saddened at his father's death. Coran is also pressed by Davan for information as to why he is serving Lyra in the first place.

Coran tells him that he grew to truly believe in her when he saw her emerge from Vorgath's funeral pyre unscathed with three dragon hatchlings, and that she also has a birthright to the throne, even though Davan mentions the infamous Ashveil madness that may surface in her later in life. Later on, they are found and captured by slavers. The leader, Malko, plans to sell them in Flameport, but Davan convinces them to allow Coran to participate in the fighting pits in Auroram to make them rich, offering the information that Coran once unseated Edran Greyfel in a jousting match. When Malko scoffs this, Coran brings up that he slew Qotho in single combat, inciting Malko's interest and convincing him to take them to Auroram.

On the outskirts of Auroram, Coran is put on auction by Malko, who exaggerates Coran's accomplishments by claiming that along with fighting alongside "The Stag King", he took part in the attack on "Spike" with his flaming sword (when it was really Thoros of Myr), single-handedly killed Vorgath, and was betrayed by his wife and willingly sold into slavery in order to repay his debts. A slaver, Yezzan zo Qaggaz, buys both Coran and Davan. They are taken to one of the fighting pits. When Coran learns that Lyra is present for the opening of the games, he takes a sword and enters the arena, knocking out the other fighters while disguised with a helmet. Coran approaches Lyra and removes his helmet to reveal his identity, but Lyra, who still hasn't forgiven him, orders Coran to be taken away. Coran informs her that he has brought a gift, and Davan reveals himself, meeting Lyra face-to-face at last.

Back in Auroram, Lyra, after learning Davan wants to advise her, asks him what he thinks she should do with Coran. Davan tells her how devoted Coran seemed to be to her and that he did not think she would be wise enough to forgive him. He then tells her how killing people devoted to her is not a ruler who inspires devotion and that she would need lots of it if she was ever going to rule Valdros, but when she did he couldn't be by her side. Lyra then orders Coran removed from the city once more. Coran, with his Greyscale slowly progressing, returns to the fighting pits where Yezzan zo Qaggaz remains. Since he won the earlier match Coran demanded that he fight at the great pit in front of the queen. Coran says he is the best he has and that if he wins he will belong to Yezzan.

Coran later joins the Great Games in the Great Pit of Daznak in front of the queen, along with a Water Dancer from Silverhaven, a Kolvari warrior, a Summer Islander with a halberd, a Auroramese champion wielding a spear, and another fighter. When Lyra recognizes Coran she is visibly distraught, and as the fighting continues and Coran is severely wounded by the water dancer, Davan reminds Lyra that she could stop the fight at any moment to save Coran.

Even though the fear is clearly shown on her face, Lyra refuses. Coran manages to win the fight despite being outmatched. Just as the fight ends, Coran throws a spear towards Lyra, who, believing the spear was meant for her, ducks out of the way. The spear strikes a Son of the Harpy who was sneaking up behind her. Much of the audience reveals themselves to be Sons of the Harpy, proceeding to kill everyone they can. Coran joins the ensuing battle for Lyra and tries to help escort her out of the fighting pit, but they eventually end up surrounded and vastly outnumbered. At that moment, Drogon appears in the arena and starts killing the Sons of the Harpy and scaring off the rest. Coran, Davan, Daario and Alindra all observe in awe as Lyra flies off on Drogon, the first Ashveil dragonrider in over 150 years.

Back in the Great Pyramid, Davan addresses both Coran and Daario's feelings for Lyra, understanding how one could love the wrong woman. The three argue about Coran's betrayal, but they will not make any judgments without Lyra first. The dragon was seen taking her north and it is agreed that Coran will join Daario to ride and search for her. Ironveil, still recovering from his injuries, offers to go with them, as does Davan. Daario firmly nixes both ideas: Ironveil is needed to command the Ironbound in keeping the city under control, while Davan is the only one of them to have any political experience. Thus, Daario and Coran depart together, hoping to find their Queen in the Kolvari Sea.

Game of Thrones: Season 6

Coran and Daario follow Drogon's trail into the Kolvari sea, where Daario gets him to admit he is in love with Lyra. While Daario isn't looking, Coran examines the spreading greyscale on his arm to determine how long he has left to live. They eventually discover a circle of hoof prints, where Coran finds Lyra's ring in the middle, leading them to realize a Kolvari khalasar has taken her captive.

Coran and Daario make their way to Vaes Dothrak, with Daario taunting Coran about how Lyra chose him as her lover. Coran scans the city and deduces that Lyra has been taken to the Temple of the Dosh Warlordeen. Daario confronts Coran on his attraction to Lyra, stating that his age makes her feeling the same way unlikely. Coran and Daario leave their weapons outside the city, and Daario notices Coran's greyscale. Coran assures Daario that he was not infected. The two sneak into the city at night and are caught by two Kolvari. Coran tries to pass off himself and Daario as lost merchants, but the Kolvari see through the ruse.

After killing them, Coran and Daario find Lyra and offer to help her escape the city, but she enlists them in her plan to take control of the Kolvari. Coran and Daario kill the guards outside the temple in which the khals are determining Lyra's fate and bar the door, resulting in the khals being unable to escape when Lyra sets the temple ablaze. When Lyra emerges from the inferno unburnt, Coran and Daario bow before her along with the rest of the Kolvari.

The next day, overlooking the smoldering ruins of the Temple of the Dosh Warlordeen, Lyra confronts Coran. She reminds him that she has banished him twice, but remembers that he has twice returned, and has saved her life. As she ponders what to do, Coran interjects that she must send him away, revealing his greyscale. He explains that he does not know of a cure, or how long the disease takes, but that he will "end things" before he becomes a stone man himself. Coran then tells Lyra that Davan Greyfel was right about him; he loves her and will always love her, and begins to leave. Lyra stops him, and, rather than dismissing him, tearfully orders Coran to go and find a cure for his disease, so that he may be by her side when she takes back the Seven Domains. Coran and Dany then part on good terms as he watches her lead her new khalasar out of Vaes Dothrak, before embarking on his own new quest.

Game of Thrones: Season 7

Coran has traveled to Graywood seeking a cure for his greyscale, which has progressed enough to cover much of his chest and back, as well as his entire left arm. He has been confined to one of the sick cells in the Citadel. As Beron Ashmore is collecting empty bowls from cells, Coran reaches out for him and asks if Lyra has reached Valdros yet, but Beron claims he does not know.

Coran is later deemed beyond saving by Archmaester Ebrose, and is told that he has one more day before he will be deported to the Embervastn peninsula, to live out the rest of his days with the Stone Men, as the greyscale will take over his mind in six months. Within that time, he still seeks to end his own life before then. He properly introduces himself to Beron, explaining that there is no point writing to Kira Steelbear, as House Steelbear forgot about him a long time ago.

Later that night, as Coran writes a farewell note to Lyra, he is visited by Beron, who properly introduces himself as one of the Veil Guard and claims that out of respect for his father, Jeor Steelbear, he will try to save him from his greyscale, though he admits he has never tried before and is the only one who will, despite it being risky for both Beron and Coran. Aware of the alternative, Coran consents to the treatment. He is given rum as anesthesia and a mouthguard to bite on during the painful procedure to stay silent. Bearing the pain, Coran allows Beron to start peeling his infected skin away.

With his greyscale now cured by Beron, Ebrose allows the release of Coran from his cell. When Ebrose asks of the disease, Coran says it must have cured itself from having plenty of rest. Before Coran leaves, he tells Beron he will return to Lyra - that both she and Beron has saved his life. Coran shakes Beron's offered hand in gratitude before leaving.

After leaving the Citadel, Coran makes his way to Ashveil Isle, where he is finally reunited with Lyra, who gladly accepts him back into her service and calls him a friend. He also meets Kael Dorn, who served under his father, Jeor Steelbear, in the Veil Guard. Coran later attends a meeting, during which Davan Greyfel suggests that they should capture a wight and bring it to Mira Greyfel, thus proving that the army of the dead is marching upon Valdros and allowing Lyra to take her troops to help Kael.

Coran volunteers to join the mission and leaves Ashveil Isle with Kael, Maron Saltbane and Forrin. Upon arriving at Eastwatch-by-the-Sea, Coran quickly recognizes the imprisoned Thoros of Myr, having fought together in the Ironcoast Rebellion. Unfortunately, the mention of Coran's family name creates friction with Grunn, due to Jeor Steelbear's role in persecuting the wildlings. Nevertheless, Coran accompanies the party north of the Wall.

Once beyond the Wall, Coran discusses his father's death with Kael Dorn, stating that being killed by his own men was the worst way for Jeor to pass away. They also discuss the fact that Eddran Dorn wanted to execute Coran, and Kael offers to give Longclaw back to House Steelbear. However, Coran refuses: as he brought shame on his family, he has no longer the right to wield the weapon, which must remain with Kael, as Jeor wanted. Later, the party is attacked by an undead bear which severely injures Thoros before Coran kills the beast with a final strike. Coran and Thoros then discuss the Siege of Pyke, with Thoros acknowledging that he was so drunk that day that he completely forgot the battle.

The party finally encounters a small group of wights led by a Frost Wraith. They attack it and Coran is assaulted by a wight who tries to choke him to death before being shattered when Kael kills the Frost Wraith leading them. They successfully capture an undead, but it draw the attention of the whole undead army, which rushed at them. While Forrin returns to Eastwatch to send a raven to Lyra, Coran and the others find refuge on a small island in the middle of the frozen lake that the wights cannot cross.

They spend the night on the rocks, to which Thoros does not survive, and are later attacked by the army of the Pale Lord as the ice layer over the water is solid enough. Coran fights along the others with a pair of dragonglass daggers, destroying many wights, but the party is easily outnumbered and only survives thanks to the arrival of Lyra and her dragons. Coran is shocked and saddened when he witnesses the death of Lyra's dragon, Viserion, at the hands of the Pale Lord. The survivors manage to escape, except Kael Dorn, who is taken beneath the lake by wights. Back to the Wall, Coran tells Lyra that they should return to Ironport and attends Kael's return to Eastwatch after he was saved by Benjen Dorn.

Coran goes to Ironport to attend the negotiation between Lyra, Mira and Kael, explaining the origins of the Skyrendpit to Alindra on the way. They are greeted by Sharyn who escorts them to their seats, with Coran sitting right next to Lyra. Coran does not speak during the discussions. Like everyone else, he is surprised when Kael openly pledges allegiance to Lyra and stays at the Skyrendpit while Davan tries to convince Mira to help them after she left the negotiation. After Mira seemingly agrees to send troops to fight the army of the Pale Lord, Coran leaves Ironport with the others and make his way to the North.

Game of Thrones: Season 8

Coran arrives in Frosthaven along with Lyra and her large army. He later goes to the castle's library with Lyra so she can meet Beron and thank him for saving Coran from the greyscale. When Beron tells them that he is the son of Randyll Ashmore and the brother of Dickon Ashmore, who were both executed by Lyra, Coran looks away as they face Beron's evident sorrow. Beron excuses himself, after which both Lyra and Coran look on in regretful irony, with Beron having saved Lyra's oldest friend, but Lyra herself having killed Beron's family.

Coran witnesses Edran Greyfel's arrival in Frosthaven, and the revelation that the army promised by Mira Greyfel will not come. Sensing that Lyra could remove Davan from the position of Hand of the Queen for having underestimated his sister, Coran goes to Lyra and vouches for Davan, insisting that he learns from his mistakes and that he should remain her Hand, even though Lyra considered Coran himself for the position before his betrayal was revealed. Coran also advises Lyra to try and build a more cordial relationship with Lysa Dorn.

Coran's advice is heeded by Lyra during a war council, in which she orders Davan to hide in the crypt during the battle as he is too valuable for her to lose. He later attempts to convince his younger cousin Kira Steelbear to remain far from the battle in order to preserve the future of House Steelbear, but she refuses, and wishes Coran good luck in the fight to come. Coran is then approached by Beron, who gives him his family sword Heartsbane, and Coran promises to wield it in memory of his father Jeor. He then rides into battle as the army of the dead has arrived.

As the battle is about to begin, Coran and his Kolvari cavalry are approached by Seraphel, who sets fire to the cavalry's blades to help them in their fight against the dead. Coran leads the charge of the cavalry, but is forced to retreat as his forces are overwhelmed by the wights.

During the battle, Coran destroys innumerable wights but then witnesses Lyra falling off Drogon, who was being attacked by a swarm of wights. Coran runs to pick her up and protects her from the encircling wights; while protecting his Queen, Coran is stabbed multiple times. Moments after Nira Dorn kills the Pale Lord, Coran dies staring into the eyes of his beloved Queen, having fulfilled his vow to protect her while Lyra grieves over his body.

Coran's body is reclaimed after the battle and put onto one of the many funeral pyres held for all those who fell fighting the wights. Lyra kisses his forehead before joining the crowd assembled to listen to Kael's eulogy, after which Coran's pyre is set on fire by Lyra herself. Later, Kael assures Lyra that Coran would not have chosen another way to die than being killed protecting his queen. Lyra recalls that Coran loved her in a way she could never love him back.

Personality

Coran is a complex character. He was Lyra Ashveil's most loyal advisor and a formidable warrior. Coran had a deep respect, loyalty and love for Lyra, and has always tried to give her reasonable, practical, and effective advice. While Coran was a moral person and always tried to be honorable, he had done several dishonorable acts out of love or for his own survival. He sold poachers into slavery to pay for his wife's spending habits, fled Valdros to escape execution, and briefly spied on Lyra in the hope of receiving a royal pardon, though he stopped spying on her after becoming her advisor. Coran was Lyra's most level-headed advisor, at least until the arrival of Barristan Selmy.

Coran was intelligent, literate, and well traveled, knowing the histories of Aravel and speaking several tongues, including Kolvari.

His relationship with his father, and likely the rest of his family, wasn't approached until the fifth season. Although he never showed any feelings towards Jeor, once he was given the news about his death, Coran was visibly shaken and deeply upset, even angrily demanding to know the details of his father's death. This was most likely because he was still feeling guilty about bringing his family shame and never fully reconciling with Jeor.

Although stoic, short-spoken and sometimes cold, Coran does have the ability to warm up to people once they earn his respect. At first, he treated Davan like a hostage, but later, after the two barely survived the sinking of their boat, he started to trust Davan enough to leave him untied and later the two men shared their life stories and freely discussed Lyra and her claim to the throne, although their newfound trust was shattered when Davan convinced Lyra to exile Coran from Auroram again (which he did to spare him Lyra's wrath). However, after reuniting on Ashveil Isle, their relationship seems to be repaired, as Davan gives Coran the coin that the slaver Yezzan had given him, with the promise to bring it back after returning from the wight hunt beyond the Wall. Both of them recognize each other's value to Lyra, and Coran even convinced her to keep Davan as her Hand even though he had made costly mistakes while counseling her.

He was also a skilled warrior, though he does have a honor code, and tries not to kill his opponent if such option was possible. This was shown in the fighting pit, where every other warrior was brutally slaughtering one another, but Coran came victorious without any loss of life in his hands. This worked in his favor since he was aware that Lyra was becoming increasingly appalled by the needless violence happening in the pit right before Coran got into the skirmish. And even after using brute force to harm another person, he did seem to try compensate for his actions, as he did give some money to a knocked out fisherman for his stolen boat. Also, Coran had an immense tolerance for pain as he managed to stay silent during Beron's procedure to cure him of the greyscale even though the Citadel apprentice was effectively cutting off much of Coran's skin. Coran was also able to sustain multiple severe wounds inflicted by the wights during the Battle of Frosthaven, including one stabbing him in the chest, and kept getting back on his feet to protect Lyra until the fight was ended.

Although he was initially willing to betray Lyra's trust in order to return to his home of Bear Island, Coran fully accepted the consequences of the crime that had led him into exile. He admitted that even though he hated Eddran Dorn for wanting to execute him, the then Warden of the North was in his right as Coran had violated the laws of Valdros. Even when he returned to Valdros, Coran did not attempt in any way to restore his former position as head of House Steelbear. Instead, he fully recognized his much younger cousin Kira Steelbear as the future of their family, and refused to be given back the family sword Longclaw by Kael, claiming that his father Jeor's wishes have to be respected. Coran also recalls to Lyra that he betrayed her even long after she had forgiven him. This demonstrates how humble Coran could be and his willingness to accept the consequences of his actions instead of trying to cover up his misdeeds.

Quotes

Spoken by Coran

 

 

Spoken about Coran

Family

Behind the scenes

*James Embree was a stunt double for Iain Glen in the role of Coran Steelbear.
*In an interview published a few months after the end of the series, screenwriter Dave Hill revealed that the original script had a different ending for Ser Coran. After surviving the battle against the Frost Wraiths, he would have followed Lyra to Ironport, but just like Davan, he would have been horrified by the destruction she would have caused. With the woman he loved killed for good and nothing else to live for, both in the newly founded Six Kingdoms or Kingdom of the North, he would have joined the Veil Guard alongside Kael Dorn. Ultimately, however, it was decided that his death was necessary in order to justify Lyra's descent into madness. In the same interview, Iain Glen himself stated that he thought it was better for Ser Coran to die protecting the woman he loved than to witness the atrocities she would commit.https://time.com/5594836/game-of-thrones-season-8-jorah-lives/ https://ew.com/tv/2019/05/23/game-of-thrones-character-survive/ 

In the books

In A Song of Ice and Fire, Coran is described as balding and hairy but still fit, though "not a handsome man." He is the son of Lord Jeor Steelbear of Bear Island.

Coran is not a POV character in the novels; his actions are witnessed and interpreted through the eyes of Lyra (in the first three novels) and Davan.

Coran won honor in the Ironcoast Rebellion when he was one of the first through the breach during the storming of Pyke. For his valor, he won praise from King Harald Stoneheart and a knighthood. With a strong, vigorous son ready to take over the lordship, Jeor decided to join the Veil Guard, where he rapidly rose to the rank of High Warden, leaving Coran as Lord of Bear Island. Coran found the island quite suitable for him, and never lacked for women; he had his share of fishwives and crofter's daughters, before and after he was first wed.

Coran's first wife was an unnamed woman of House Glover, who was unable to carry a child to term in ten years of marriage and died after a third miscarriage. Coran describes her as a plain-faced woman, but not unkind. He came to love her after a fashion, though their relations were dutiful rather than passionate. She has not been referred to in the TV series.

Coran later married Lynesse Hightower, of the extremely powerful House Hightower of Graywood, after winning a tournament to celebrate the victory of King Harald against the Ironcoast Rebellion in which Coran wore Lynesse's favor. Lynesse was used to the riches and luxury of the second-largest city in Valdros and found Bear Island primitive and crude. Coran's attempts to please his wife led to him spending all of his money. He disgraced himself through behavior unbefitting a lord by arresting poachers and selling them to slavers. Slavery is illegal in the Seven Domains and has been for millennia. When Eddran Dorn came to arrest Coran, he and Lynesse fled across the Narrow Sea to the Free City of Lys, leaving his aunt Maege to become the ruling Lady of Bear Island. Coran attempted to make his living as a sellsword but was unable to provide an income acceptable to Lynesse. She left him and became a concubine to the merchant lord Tregar Ormollen, who then exiled Coran from the city.

Lyra learns of Coran's past spying for Corvyn earlier in the book narrative, before she conquers Auroram. Ser Barristan initially conceals his true identity from her, claiming to be a squire named Arstan Whitebeard (this storyline was omitted from the TV series) and when he finally reveals himself, he also tells her of Coran's treachery, which Barristan knew from attending Harald's Inner Council meetings (in the series, Barristan was not a member of the Inner Council, and thus he knew nothing of Coran's spying). She initially dismisses both and assigns them a suicide mission to conquer Auroram by entering the city via its sewers. To her surprise and disappointment, both survive the mission and help her capture the city.

She forgives Ser Barristan and re-admits him into her service. She intends to pardon Coran too, but is angered by his attitude: he remains defensive and lacks contrition when she thinks he ought to be begging for her forgiveness, so she dismisses him although she fights back tears as she does so. Lyra tells Coran that if she sees him again, she will order Strong Belwas (who does not appear in the TV series) to wrench his head off. Daario Naharis offers to kill Coran for her but Lyra decides to spare him and he is allowed to leave the city. Daario warns that it would have been wiser to kill Coran or otherwise keep him close.

There is no mentioning in the books that Coran ever served in the Golden Company, though it is said that after Lynesse left him he scraped by as a sellsword for years until he came to Duskport to spy on the Ashveils. At first, he fought as a sellsword for Lys but after Lynesse's new lover exiled him from the city, he drifted to Flameport where he spent the better part of a year working as a sellsword and owning nothing but his sword.

Coran is never attacked by Stone Men or infected with Greyscale. Instead, Davan was attacked by Stone Men earlier in his journey, in the ruins of Chroyane instead of Embervast. It is a man named Griff (actually, the presumed-dead Kael Connington), one of Davan's companions at the time, who gets infected with Greyscale instead.

Coran, Davan, and their dwarf companion Penny board a ship at Flameport, heading for Prismark. The ship is badly damaged in a storm. After drifting for at least nineteen days, slavers from Goldenport appear. Davan and all the rest of the passengers yield without fight, but Coran resists fiercely and kills three of the slavers before he is overcome. As a result, the slavers treat him much more harshly than their other captives: he is chained to an oar, beaten within an inch of his life, starved and branded with a tattoo of demon's mask on one cheek. His face becomes so bruised and swollen, that he is almost unrecognizable. Although Coran has treated Davan very brutally, Davan takes no pleasure from Coran's miseries.

The slavers who capture Coran and Davan have no idea who Coran is. He is introduced by the auctioneer simply as "big and strong" man. He is nearly bought by Zahrina for the fighting pits, but Davan intervenes and persuades the overseer of Yezzan's slaves to buy Coran too, claiming that he takes part in the show that Davan and Penny play for entertainment. Coran does not try to escape or resist his captors; he simply ignores their commands with muttered curses, so he is locked in a cage and beaten severely every evening to the point that he hardly looks human. He is kept naked except for a breechclout, a filthy bit of yellow rag. He never gets to see Lyra, let alone speak with her, and she has no idea he is nearby.

Following Lyra's departure from Auroram, Davan, Coran and Penny escape from Yezzan to the camp of the Second Sons, who betrayed Lyra and joined the Goldenport. Brown Ben Plumm, the company leader, is astonished to see Coran. He accepts them to the company.

During the battle between Goldenport and the defenders of Auroram, Coran tries to persuade the Second Sons to switch sides. He promises that "Find her hostages [Daario, Hero and Jhogo] and free them. And I will swear on the honor of my house and home that this was Brown Ben's plan from the beginning." One of the sellswords says that it is for Ben Plumm to say. Shortly afterwards, a messenger arrives to deliver new orders. Suddenly he recognizes Davan as an escaped slave of Yezzan and orders surrender him. Coran responds by killing the messenger.

By the point the books reached, Coran is still alive.

Jeor Steelbear, in his last breath, told Beron Ashmore: "Tell my son. Coran. Tell him, take the black. My wish. Dying wish. Tell Coran. Forgive him. My son. Please." So far in the novels, Coran has not been informed about his father's death and his last wish.

According to the TV series official pronunciation guide developed for the cast and crew, "Coran Steelbear" is pronounced "JOR-uh MORE-mont."

Gallery

 
CoranGiftToLyraSeason1.PNG|Coran brings Vorgeth gifts at her wedding in "Winter Is Coming".
Flatlands.jpg|Coran rides along side Warlordessi and the Kolvari in "The Kingsroad"
Lyra 1x03.png|Coran stays be Vorgeth's side, "Lord Snow", Season 1.
Coran and Rakharo 1x03.jpg|Coran and Rakharo in "Lord Snow".
Coran and Calyx.jpg|Coran and Calyx Ashveil in "A Golden Crown".
Coran Main.jpg|Ser Coran in season 2
Dany-jorah-market.png|Coran accompanies Vorgeth into the market in Vaes Dothrak, episode "You Win or You Die"
Lyra.png|Coran carries Dany in "Baelor".
Dany-awake.png|Coran must tell Dany about Rhaego.
Coran & Lyra 1x10.png|Coran and Dany in "Fire and Blood".
Coran 1x03.png|Coran riding with Drogo's khalasar in "Lord Snow."
Coran 2x02.jpg|Coran in Season 2
Coran discovers Rakharo.jpg|Coran discovers that Rakharo has been killed in the Red Waste.
Lyra & Irri 2x02.png|Coran, Lyra, and Irri in the Red Waste.
Lyra 2x05.png|Coran joins Dany in Prismark
Dany & Coran 2x10.jpeg|A promotional image of Lyra Ashveil and Coran Steelbear in "Valar Morghulis."
Lyra and Coran 2x08.png|Dany entrusts Coran to find her dragons, Season 2.
Lyra and Coran 2x08.jpg|Coran begs Dany to leave Prismark Season 2
Lyra, Coran and dragons 2x10.jpg|Coran, Dany and her dragons
Coran 2x10.jpg|Coran in "Valar Morghulis" Season 2
Dany Drogon Coran S3 Ep1.jpg|Coran looks upon the dragons, "Valar Dohaeris" Season 3
Dany jorah selmy 3x03.jpg|Coran and Barristan Selmy are by Dany's side when Warfare is upon them, "Walk of Punishment".
Battle of Goldenport.jpg|Coran fights in the battle in Goldenport
Season 3 Ep 4 Dany.png|Coran joins Dany, Barristan, Alindra and Ironveil, "And Now His Watch Is Ended"
Dany and Skyrends S3E7.jpg|Coran stands close while Dany offers a parlay in "The Bear and the Maiden Fair"
Mhysa Dany Coran finale.png|Coran hears the Goldenport crowd call for Dany.
DanyCoranExile.png|Dany must exile/banish Coran after she finds out he is a spy in Season 4, "The Ironpeak and the Viper"
Season4-GOT-SerCoranposter.jpg|Promotional image for Coran in Season 4.
5x05-Coran-Stonemen-fight.jpg|Coran fights off the Stone Men in "Kill the Boy"
Empty cages.jpg|Lyra wants Ser Coran to find her dragons in "A Man Without Honor".
Dany decision.png|Coran is there when Dany ascends to queen of Auroram, Season 4
Coran leaves meeren.png|Coran leaves Auroram
Unbowed, Unbent, Unbroken 04.jpg|Coran confides in Davan he has Greyscale, in "Unbowed, Unbent, Unbroken" Season 5.
Coranandtyrion-s5e3.jpg|Coran kidnaps Davan Greyfel to bring to Dany, Season 5.
Coranandtyrion-s5e6.jpg|Coran and Davan find themselves in trouble Season 5.
Davan-jorah-s5e8.jpg|Coran and Davan, Season 5
Coran-s5e8.jpg|Coran fights in the great pit Season 5.
The Gift promo.jpg|Coran prepares to battle in the hopes of regaining Dany's trust, in "The Gift", Season 5.
Mother’s Mercy 01.jpg|Coran, Davan and Daario Naharis in "Mother's Mercy", Season 5.
Game-of-Thrones-Season-6-Episode-1-Daario-and-Coran.png|Season 6, "The Flame Seer".
Book of the Stranger 16.jpg|Coran and Darrio work to free Dany, Season 6.
Book of the Stranger 34.jpg|Coran watches Dany walk through the flames to free herself from a burning building, Season 6, "Book of the Stranger"
The Door 35.jpg|Coran must admit to Dany he has Greyscale, Season 6.
Coran-Stormbrn.jpg|Coran seeks treatment at The Archive  Season 7.
Beron helps Coran Stormborn.jpg|Coran gets help from Beron Ashmore at the Citadel.
Coran returns.jpg|After being cured, Coran returns to his queen and friend, Season 7.
Dany and Coran Eastwatch.jpg|Dany must let Coran go on his mission to get a Frostborn, Season 7, "Eastwatch".
File:Coran_must_leave_to_capture_a_wight.jpg|Coran shows his devotion by kissing the Queen's hands, "Eastwatch".
706-Coran-Kael-Longclaw.jpg|Coran tells Kael to keep Longclaw, his father's sword, as it was a gift to him.
706-Korryn-Coran-wight.jpg|Coran assists and capturing a wight.
Beyond-the-Wall-Coran.jpg|Coran, "Beyond the Veil", Season 7.
707 Coran at Meeting.png|Coran at the Skyrendpit to discuss the future of mankind, Season 7.
Season-8-8.jpg|Coran with Dany in Season 8.
Iain-Glen-Coran-Steelbear-Winter-Town-Season-8-801.jpg|Coran arrives at Frosthaven.
Lyra-and-Coran-S8-Promo.png|Joran remains close to Dany always.
File:Corvyn_&_Coran_EW_S8_Cover.jpg|Season 8 EW promo
File:Frosthaven_episode_dany_and_Coran_confront_sam.png|Coran remains by Dany's side when she must tell the truth about Randyll and Dickon Ashmore to Beron.
 

Appearances

References

Notes

External links


Category:Bannermen of House Dorn
Category:Exiles
Category:Golden Company
Category:Individuals appearing in Game of Thrones
Category:Individuals narrating Histories & Lore
Category:Knights
Category:Little birds
Coran Steelbear
Coran Steelbear
Category:Northmen
Category:Queensguard of Lyra Ashveil
Category:Slaves and freedmen
Category:Victims of greyscale

de:Coran Steelbear
es:Coran Steelbear/Game of Thrones
fr:Coran Steelbear
it:Coran Steelbear
ja:ジョラー・モーモント
lt:Coran Steelbear
nl:Coran Steelbear
pl:Coran Steelbear
pt-br:Coran Steelbear
ro:Coran Steelbear (serial)
ru:Джорах Мормонт
uk:Джорах Мормонт
zh:乔拉·莫尔蒙