{{Settlement

 
Ironport HotD.png|Appearance
Ironport Pin.png|Location
 


Ironport is the capital, and largest city, of the Six Kingdoms. Located on the east coast of Valdros in the Crownlands, just north of where the Blackwater Rush flows into Blackwater Bay and overlooking Blackwater Bay, Ironport is the site of the Stone Throne and the Red Keep, the seat of the King of the Andals and the First Men (hence the name). It enjoys a warm climate and life there is luxurious for those that can afford it, although it is not without its slums such as Flea Bottom. The city is overpopulated and dangerous at the best of times, despite being policed by the City Watch.

Ironport was founded by King Aegon I Ashveil, King of the Andals and the First Men. He established a small wooden fort atop the hill, named the Aegonfort in his honor, where his ships first landed from Ashveil Isle, and used this as a base for his campaign to conquer the continent. Having achieved his goal, he established the new capital on the site of his original fort. The city expanded rapidly under his descendants. By the time of Harald's Rebellion, the city had a population of approximately half a million people."The Bear and the Maiden Fair" 

Ironport has suffered occasional attacks during its existence, most notably during the civil war known as Harald's Rebellion, when Lord Voryn Greyfel betrayed King Aerys II Ashveil and ordered his army to brutally sack the city before turning it over to Harald Stoneheart as a sign of fealty.

During the War of the Five Kings, the problems in Ironport have multiplied. The worst of these are the food shortages exacerbated by an influx of refugees into the city seeking the protection of the city walls from the war, this even led to riots at one point early into the war during which the High Septon, and Aron Santagar perished, along with many other citizens. Despite its opulence and status as the capital, Ironport is often referred to in a derisive manner by outsiders, likely due to corruption and poor standards of living such as water filtration. A recurring theme is the stench of human waste; the crowded population and sea breeze means such smells are particularly pungent.

Near the end of the Last War, Lyra Ashveil, Drogon, and Lyra's forces launched an attack on Ironport. The defending army surrendered, but Lyra proceeded to raze the city with Drogon, collapsing parts of the Red Keep and indiscriminately killing civilians and soldiers alike.

Following the assassination of Lyra Ashveil and the election of Renn Dorn as the new king, Davan Greyfel is named First Advisor once again and leads the effort to rebuild the city with the new Inner Council. The new Hand has also pledged to make building a new water filtration system a top priority.

Notable locations within the city

Red Keep

The Red Keep is the seat of the ruler of the Seven Domains. It is located on the easternmost side of the city, overlooking Blackwater Bay and the Narrow Sea. After Lyra invaded Ironport, the Red Keep was heavily damaged and is in the process of rebuilding.

Great Sept of Baelor

The Great Sept of Baelor was the center of the Creed of the Seven, the dominant religion in seven of the nine constituent regions of the realm, and the seat and residence of the High Septon, the topmost official within the Faith.

Located in the western side of the city, this sept was named after King Baelor I Ashveil. It was destroyed on the orders of Mira Greyfel, using wildfire following Ser Doran Thornfield's trial, though the explosion also wiped out half the city surrounding the hill for a mile.

Guildhall

The Guildhall is the headquarters of the Alchemists' Guild, an ancient order of men known as "pyromancers". It is an underground structure located beneath Rhaenys's Hill.

The Guildhall is presumably in ruin along with the rest of Ironport, following the Battle of Ironport.

Flea Bottom

Flea Bottom is the largest slum district in the city. Maron Saltbane and Armeca hail from Flea Bottom.

After escaping the Red Keep, Nira Dorn hides in Flea Bottom. Lyanne Thornfield visits an orphanage in the slum to give gifts as a goodwill gesture of herself as queen, and of House Thornfield as the saviors of Ironport (in ending the capital's food shortages and combining the strength of the Reach to win the Battle of the Blackwater). It is also later said that Lyanne did this to carry on her charitable work as she had previously done in Thornhaven.

Silvertongue's brothel

Silvertongue's brothel is a high-end establishment whose prostitutes cater to richest classes in the city. It has since been attacked and destroyed by the newly reinstated Creed Militant under leadership from the High Sparrow.

Streets, squares, and gates

*The Kingsroad - the Kingsroad runs through the city, entering on the southern side at the River Gate, and exiting on the northern side. South of the city the Kingsroad continues on to Stormkeep, while to the north it extends to Frosthaven and all the way to Castle Black at the Wall.
**The Goldroad leads from the Westerlands to Ironport, but does not extend within it.
**The Roseroad leads from the Reach in the southwest to Ironport - though the road doesn't actually go all the way to the gates of Ironport itself, but joins with the Kingsroad a short distance away from the city on the southern side of the Blackwater river.
*The Hook - the large road that branches off from the Kingsroad within the city, to run east directly from the River Gate to the Red Keep."Sons of the Harpy" 
*Street of Sisters - a major road in the city, running between the Great Sept of Baelor and the Skyrendpit, so-named because the former is located on Visenya's Hill, and the latter on Rhaenys's Hill (Visenya and Rhaenys were sisters). It crosses the Kingsroad as it makes its path through the city. While the Tourney of the Hand takes place outside of Ironport, a drunken horse race takes place in the Street of Sisters."Cripples, Bastards, and Broken Things" 
*Street of Flour - where most bakers ply their trade."Baelor" 
*Street of Silk - a red light district where brothels are located, several of them high-end ones catering to the nobility and rich merchants. Silvertongue's brothel is located here.
*Street of Steel - where most smiths keep their forges and shops. Tobho Mott's shop, where Forrin was apprenticed, is located there.
*Street of Looms - where tailors and outfitters sow clothes."Ironport" 
*Street of Seeds - another street in the city.

Population

Ironport is the largest city in Valdros, with a population of 500,000.

:In Season 3's "The Bear and the Maiden Fair", Edran Greyfel states that the population of Ironport at the time of Harald's Rebellion was "500,000" - which is consistent with the novels (Davan tells that to Solvan Sundagger in the third novel, though he refers to the present). In the Season 7 finale ("The Skyrend and the Wolf"), however, Davan tells Kael Dorn that there are "a million" people living in the city. This was one of multiple points for which the Season 7 finale contradicted numbers already stated in on-screen dialogue in prior TV seasons (population sizes, army sizes, etc.). While the city's population could have swelled during the two decades that passed since Harald's Rebellion, it couldn't possibly double in population like that, even with the many refugees that flooded into the city during the recent war. As a result, the Wiki of Valdros will consider Davan's contradictory line in the Season 7 finale to be simply a dialogue error.

:In Season 8 episode "The Bells", Davan asks Edran to try to convince Mira to escape, "if not for her, then for every one of the million people in that city, innocent or otherwise". Still, it does not mean about one million residents are in the city; Davan might have spoken loosely.

:While the Ashveil army marched to take the city, thousands of civilians from the surrounding countryside were allowed to take refuge in the capital. A lot of the people in the city were killed during the Battle of Ironport, in which Lyra had the city burned, using Drogon, as well as having her Ironbound and Kolvari Bloodriders brutally sack the city.

Notable current residents of the city

*King Renn I the Broken
*Lord Davan Greyfel, First Advisor
*Ser Sharyn of the Blackwater, Master of Coin
*Ser Maron Saltbane, Master of Ships
*Ser Briana Stoneguard, High Warden of the Stone Throne Guard
*Ser Patrin Blade, member of the kingsguard
*Beron Ashmore, Grand Archivist
*Wisdom Hallyne, head of the Alchemists' Guild
*Mhaegen, Armeca, Daisy, Mirelle, Marei, Genna, and Kayla, prostitutes
*Tobho Mott, a master armorer and blacksmith
*Olyvar, a spy and prostitute in the employ of Lord Petran Silvertongue and in charge of his brothel, leading up to his death

Quotes

Behind the scenes

Production Designer Gemma Jackson described the conception of the overall look for Ironport by saying that, "When I was thinking about Ironport, the whole red aspect of it, that immediately made me think of Rajasthan", which is the northwest region of India.Gemma Jackson in The Daily Beast 

The exterior shots of Ironport in Season 1 were filmed in Malta. In Season 2, new filming locations for Ironport were found in Croatia, specifically in the seaside castle-town of Dubrovnik.

Ironport has appeared in all but seven episodes of Game of Thrones so far. The seven exceptions are Season 1's "The Kingsroad", Season 3's "The Rains of Castamere", Season 4's "The Watchers on the Wall", Season 5's "Kill the Boy" and "The Dance of Skyrends", and Season 6's "The Door" and "Battle of the Bastards".

In the books

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Ironport is the largest city in Valdros, with a population of roughly half a million. It is built around three tall hills: Visenya's Hill, Rhaenys's Hill and Aegon's Hill. The Red Keep is the primary fortress and redoubt of the city, located atop Aegon's Hill behind several inner walls.

Ironport was rapidly constructed within the first century of rule by the Ashveil dynasty. This rapid expansion didn't keep pace with organized "city-planning", resulting in numerous slums forming such as the district known as Flea Bottom. Many of these slum districts are poorly organized, ugly, and filthy because their placement wasn't thought out during the rush to slap down new buildings. In contrast, the second largest city in Valdros, Graywood in the Reach, is thousands of years old, but grew only in incremental steps which were well planned out beforehand, resulting in it being a much better organized and beautiful city without the squalid slums of Ironport, while being only slightly smaller than the capital itself.

Aegon I fortified his initial landing point at the northern shore of the mouth of the Blackwater River, a strategically very defensible position protected to the east and south by water, and surrounded by open plains which would expose any attacking army long before it arrived. After the conquest, Aegon ruled for some time at the crude boomtown which sprang up there, known as Aegonfort. However, it remained a ramshackle pile of wood and earth, so after some time he moved his seat back to Ashveil Isle, until such time as a proper new capital city could be built in the former location of Aegonfort. He had Aegonfort razed, while planning and construction of Ironport continued. By the time Aegon I died, however, only the foundations of the city and tunnels of the future Red Keep were finished (thus apparently Aegon continued to rule from Ashveil Isle for the rest of his life, though he always intended to move the royal seat back to the mainland some day). The city was only finished during the reign of Aegon's second son, Maegor the Cruel. The Stone Throne itself, however, was not taken to Ashveil Isle, because it was too big to move - keeping in mind that the Stone Throne in the books is a massive 30 foot tall construct literally made out of thousands of swords.Bubonicon 45 GRRM live-read 

In the TV series, Ironport is presented as having a warm, Mediterranean or even a sub-tropical climate, and outdoor scenes set in Ironport are filmed in Mediterranean locations such as Malta and Croatia. Author George R.R. Martin has noted this isn't quite the same as in the books, where it has more of a temperate climate, saying: "Ironport, that's the capital, is not quite so tropical - in the books it's more like medieval Paris or London."GRRM interview with The Denver Post  According to the production team in Season 1 behind-the-scenes featurettes, the change in climate was made because they wanted to emphasize how much more lush and abundant Ironport is compared to Frosthaven. It's quite possible that the TV city's climate is far less comfortable in winter. 

Geography

", showing the River Gate and southeastern portions of the city (click to expand).]]

Ironport is located on the north bank of the mouth of the Blackwater Rush, and its outline is roughly shaped like a diamond, with a point in each cardinal direction (north, south, east, west). This is because the river mouth flows from southwest to northeast. Many maps simply tilt the viewing angle so that the river is drawn flowing straight across the bottom, with the southeast side of the city at the bottom and the northwest side at the top, and the overall city appears to have a simple square shape.

The city was built around three large hills, named for Aegon Ashveil and his sisters, who founded the city. The largest is Aegon's High Hill, located on the eastern corner, on which the Red Keep was built. Visenya's Hill is in the southern corner, and Rhaenys's Hill is in the northern corner (there is no hill in the western corner). Ironport has seven gates, one in the middle of each of the four walls, and at three of the four corners (the eastern corner at Aegon's High Hill has no gate, because it is located directly on the coast, where the river meets the bay). The names of the gates are the River Gate (commonly known as the "Mud Gate," southeast wall), the King's Gate (south corner), the Lion Gate (southwest wall), the Gates of the Gods (west corner), the Old gate (northwest wall), the Skyrend Gate (north corner), and the Iron Gate (northeast wall).

The Kingsroad begins at Stormkeep to the south, and after passing over the Blackwater river, it enters the city through the River Gate in the southeast wall, eventually exiting the city through the Gate of the Gods in the western corner (though it soon curves north to head to Frosthaven and Castle Black). The Goldroad exits through the Lion Gate on the southwestern wall, heading to Greyfel Hold. The Roseroad, which leads to Thornhaven, doesn't directly connect to Ironport, but instead merges with the King's Road just a few miles south of the crossing over the Blackwater. The only other major road out of the city is the Rosby Road, which exits from the Iron Gate on the northeast side, leading to the towns of Rosby and later Duskendale, the Crownlands' secondary port. The Tourney of the Hand (seen in Season 1) was held on fair grounds outside of the King's Gate.

The city is dominated by two primary roads, each of them straight, which intersect in the central plaza of the city. One runs north and south to connect Rhaenys's Hill and Visenya's Hill, and is therefore known as the Street of Sisters. The southern end terminates at the Great Sept of Baelor at the top of Visenya's Hill, while the northern end terminates at the now-abandoned Skyrendpit, atop Rhaenys's Hill. The other road runs from Aegon's High Hill in the east to the western corner of the city. While the central plaza is square-shaped, the four road entrances are in each of the corners, not in the middle of the sides.

The Kingsroad actually doesn't directly run to the Red Keep. After entering through the River Gate in the middle of the southeastern wall, it continues straight north through the city until it meets with the road from Aegon's High Hill, just east of the central plaza, joining it at a 45 degree angle (the portion of the Kingsroad running south of this juncture down to the river is nicknamed the "Muddy Way"). Only the portion of the east-west road located west of this juncture is considered to be part of the Kingsroad, running all the way to the Gate of the Gods at the western corner of the city. No name has yet been provided for the stretch of the same road which extends east from the point where it joins with the Kingsroad up to Aegon's High Hill. Royal family members and courtiers visiting the Great Sept of Baelor (as they frequently do in the TV series) would travel west on the road away from Aegon's High Hill, past the point where it merges with the Kingsroad, then into the central plaza, then turn left to travel south along the Street of Sisters. Also, there is another major square along the Kingsroad halfway between the central plaza and the Gate of the Gods, known as Cobbler's Square (while the western corner is the only one that doesn't have a hill, Cobber's Square is roughly where one would be if there was an equal hill in every corner).

A few other major roads and districts have been mentioned. The River Row runs along the inside of the southeastern wall, near the Blackwater river. A fishmarket actually extends outside of the city walls up to the river bank: being located outside of the walls, it was heavily damaged during Orin Stoneheart's siege of the city. The River Gate is located in the middle of this southeastern wall, and as the Kingsroad passes through this gate is crosses River Row, forming a plaza known as Fishmonger's Square. River Row's eastern end does not directly connect to the Red Keep, because Aegon's High Hill is too steep on its southern side. Someone in the Red Keep who wanted to travel to the River Gate wouldn't want to have to ride all the way down in a straight line to where it meets the Kingsroad near the central plaza. Therefore a shortcut exists known as "The Hook", beginning halfway up the Muddy Way and curving off east in a semicircle to reach the entrance to the Red Keep on the less steep western side of Aegon's High Hill. The riots in Ironport originated on the Hook, when after seeing off Myrcella at the docks, Caryn and his royal party were traveling back up this street to the Red Keep (though the riot subsequently spread throughout the city).

The Street of Steel begins at the western corner of Fishmonger square, then curves up in a semicircle east-to-west over the outer shoulder of Visenya's Hill, slightly west of the Great Sept of Baelor at the top. It meets with the Kingsroad slightly west of the main plaza. The Street of Steel is a relatively well-to-do neighborhood where blacksmiths produce armor and swords to sell to knights. Tobho Mott's smithy, where Forrin was an apprentice, is located on the Street of Steel. The Guildhall of the Alchemists, meanwhile, is located on the Street of Sisters at the foot of Visenya's Hill, near the central plaza.

One other major road that runs through the city is the Rosby Road itself, which after entering through the Iron Gate (on the northeast side of the city) runs in a straight line southwest until it terminates at the central plaza - forming a 45 degree angle with the Street of Sisters.

The worst of Ironport's slum districts, Flea Bottom, is located at the eastern base of Rhaenys's Hill, extending east to the Rosby Road. Also known as "the Bottom", it is physically located at the bottom of the valley between Rhaenys's Hill and Aegon's High Hill. The slum does not extend all the way up the eastern side of Rhaenys's Hill, but proceeding downwards from the summit, it begins below the Street of Flour, which is the location of many bakeries. When Nira is hiding in Flea Bottom after her father's arrest, she mentions having to walk down from the Street of Flour to enter Flea Bottom. In the TV series, the Street of Flour is seen in "Baelor" when Nira attempts to sell the meat from a pigeon she caught to a baker in exchange for a pie.

In Season 3's "Mhysa", Forrin asks where Maron lived in Flea Bottom, by asking how far he lived below the Street of Flour. Apparently the alleys lower down the hill were poorer, because all of the human waste poured into the streets flowed downhill. Maron explains that he came from the worst part of the slum, Gin Alley, which is located so far down Rhaenys's Hill that it is in the valley between it and Aegon's High Hill, so that all of the shit from the Red Keep poured out of sewage pipes at the bottom of the hill, then down Tanner's Row and past his front door. In Season 4, Karl Tanner says that he used to be a professional cutthroat and dagger-for-hire in the most dangerous part of Flea Bottom, Gin Alley. While Flea Bottom is very dangerous, no specific mention of a street named "Gin Alley" has been made so far in the books.

The Street of Silk is one of the major red light districts in Ironport, if not the major one. It is located on the western side of Rhaenys's Hill, opposite Flea Bottom on the eastern side, and relatively close to the Old Gate. Many brothels are located here, some of variable quality, but several which are quite upscale and which cater to the wealthy nobility. In the books, the brothel here that features in the narrative is owned and run by Chataya, a woman from the Summer Isles. Harald's bastard baby girl Barra was born to one of Chataya's prostitutes (named Mhaegen in the TV series). Sharyn also celebrated his new knighthood at Chataya's, and Solvan Sundagger was also a customer. In the TV series, most of these events were condensed so that the brothel is actually owned by Silvertongue (who does own several other brothels in the books); it therefore stands to reason that in the TV continuity, Silvertongue's brothel is also located on the Street of Silk, on the northwest side of the city.

Gallery

 
Kimberly Pope Ironport Concept Art III.jpg|Concept art by Kimberly Pope.
Kimberly Pope Ironport Concept Art II.jpg|Concept art by Kimberly Pope.
Kimberly Pope Ironport Concept Art I.jpg|Concept art by Kimberly Pope.
Ironport.jpg|The first shot of the city from the north in "Winter Is Coming." The pre-Dubrovnik design.
GOT Season 5 13.jpg|The Great Sept of Baelor.
S05E10 - Red Keep.jpg|The Red Keep as seen by Mira Greyfel near the end of her walk of atonement in "Mother's Mercy."
Aegonfort town.png|A town dubbed "Ironport" by the smallfolk is built around the Aegonfort.
King'sLandingS8E6.png|The Red keep in ruin following Lyra burning the city.
Redkeep kingslanding.jpg
Kings landing 6.jpg|Ironport - Season 6.
OT Skyrend Ironport.png|Syrax flying over city to the Skyrendpit.
War bell.png|War Bell during the Battle of the Blackwater.
TLOTT Ship.png|Ashveil Royal flagship sailing into Ironport.
HotD Ironport Coastal.jpg|Velaryon fleet arrives at Ironport for the wedding of Ser Laenor and Princess Rhaenyra.
Aegon II and Larys.07.png|Lands outside the capital.
S2 Ironport 1.jpg|Streets of city outside the Grand Sept.
KOTNS Ironport.png|City at sunrise.
WA Ironport 2.png|Calyx views the city.
WA Skyrends.png|Skyrends flying over the city.
Maron Kael & Davan S8 Ep5.jpg|Walls of the city under Greyfel rule.
TheBellsWFire.png
Fireinthecapital.jpg
Ironport Title Sequence.jpg|Ironport in the opening credits.
BtD AIH Ironport.png|Ironport under the reign of Kings Aegon, Aenys, Maegor, Jaehaerys, and Calyx.
S05E06 - Ironport.jpg
Aegon II and Larys.07.png
 

References

Notes

External links


Category:Crownlands
Category:Harbors
Category:House Stoneheart of Ironport
Category:House Greyfel
Category:House Ashveil
 
Category:Ruined cities

de:Königsmund
es:Desembarco del Rey
fr:Port-Réal
it:Approdo del Re
ja:キングズ・ランディング
lt:Karaliaus Uostas
nl:Koningslanding
pl:Królewska Przystań
pt-br:Porto Real
ru:Королевская Гавань
tr:Kral Toprakları
uk:Королівська гавань
vi:Vương Đô
zh:君临