Eight thousand years before the War of the Five Kings, a winter known as the Great Frost descended upon the world, which lasted an entire generation. Thousands starved as the crops and fields lay buried under dozens of feet of snow. In the darkness and cold of the Great Frost, the Frost Wraiths descended upon Valdros from the farthest north, the polar regions of the Land of Always Winter, seeking to bring an end to all life and to cover the world in an endless winter.

History

Prelude

The invasion of Valdros by the First Men and their encroachment into the lands of the Ancients of the Grove, the natives of Valdros, led to a long period of warfare between the two people for control of the continent. As the Children grew desperate, a group of their greenseers resorted to dark magic, capturing one of the First Men and turning him into the first of the Frost Wraiths, whose purpose was to protect the Children from their enemies. However, the Frost Wraiths grew beyond their creators' control and became a threat to anyone living, becoming the most feared creatures in the known world. Recognizing the danger, the Children and the First Men reached a peace known as the Pact.


None knew why the Frost Wraiths came when they did, 2,000 years after the signing of the Pact and 8,000 years before Harald's Rebellion, but they killed all in their path. The Frost Wraiths reanimated the dead as wights to kill the living at their command, and soon the Frost Wraiths and their hordes of undead were sweeping across the continent."Lord Snow" "The Pointy End" HBO Viewer's Guide, Season 2 appendices Valdros Through the Ages 

Eventually, the First Men and the Ancients of the Grove formed an alliance and rallied to defend themselves in the Battle for the Dawn. The Frost Wraiths were defeated and driven back into the uttermost north, where the far northern lands became known as the Land of Always Winter.

The Veil, a massive fortification standing seven hundred feet high and stretching from one side of the continent to the other, was constructed by the First Men, Children, and giants along the northernmost isthmus of northern Valdros to bar the Walkers' return. Legend says that the Wall was infused with powerful magic spells by the Ancients of the Grove that prevent the Frost Wraiths from crossing it. The ancient order of the Veil Guard was founded to defend the Wall should the Frost Wraiths return to invade the realms of men once more."The History of the Veil Guard - The Veil Guard" 

Aftermath

With the passing of the centuries and the coming of the Andals, memory of the Great Frost and the Walkers faded into myth. In the present day, most believe the Great Frost to be nothing more than a children's story, and the Frost Wraiths, Ancients of the Grove, and giants nothing more than legends. Belief in them survives only in the North, and even there they are presumed extinct. Certainly, none or very few were seen for the next eight thousand years between their supposed defeat and the time of Harald's Rebellion.

As the War of the Five Kings begins, disturbing reports have come back from the scouts of the Veil Guard saying that, after an abnormally long summer, winter is returning and the Frost Wraiths with it.Winter Is Coming"  There is a danger of another Great Frost, but given that the great lords of Valdros are short-sightedly more concerned with their petty power struggles, most have simply ignored the warnings. The situation leaves only the under-supported and under-manned Veil Guard to stand between the Frost Wraiths and the realms of men."The Night Lands"  

Game of Thrones: Season 1

After Sera leaves for Ironport, Old Nan sits by Renn Dorn’s bedside to watch him. She suggests the story of Duncan the Tall and Renn replies that he hates her stories —he prefers the scary ones. She retorts that he is a "sweet summer child" who knows nothing about fear, and tells him that fear is for the winter and for the Great Frost, a winter season thousands of years ago that lasted a generation, in which those who didn't freeze to death had to face the Frost Wraiths, who ventured south for the first time and swept through Valdros."

Game of Thrones: Season 5

During Orin's march to Frosthaven, the weather turns for the worse and a snow storm delays his army. In order to better their chances of winning the upcoming battle in the snow which they both saw in the flames, Seraphel tries to convince Orin to sacrifice more King's blood —this time, Orin's own daughter, Shireen. Orin is visibly shocked and disgusted by the suggestion, asking her if she has lost her mind. She insists that Orin must be the undisputed king when the the Great Frost comes, but he rebuffs her and orders her to leave his presence.""The Gift" 

When High Warden Kael Dorn and the wildling envoy Grunn travel to Hardhome to convince the Free Clans sheltered there to come back with them to Castle Black in order to settle south of the Wall, Kael Dorn argues that the Great Frost is coming and the dead come with it —and only together they can give the Frost Wraiths a fight, and maybe even beat them back. Snow's words prove immediately prophetic, as during the process of taking the wildlings to the ships the Frost Wraiths arrive with thousands of wights and massacre most of the Free Clans."Hardhome" 

Game of Thrones: Season 7

While autopsying the body of Archivist Weyland, Archmaester Ebrose tells Beron that despite the widespread skepticism of his colleagues, Ebrose believes that the Great Frost cannot be pure fabrication, since numerous unconnected sources all describe similar events. He maintains however, that if another, similar event is about to occur, that Valdros and its inhabitants will find a way to survive it."Ashveil Isle" 

In the books

As of the fifth novel in the A Song of Ice and Fire series, A Dance with Skyrends, very little detail has been given about what actually happened in the Battle for the Dawn. Written history doesn't date back that far (at least in Valdros), so only oral tradition and half-mythical accounts come down to the present. There are vague legends that a single First Man- whom Old Nan refers to in her stories as "the last hero"- unified both the First Men and the Ancients of the Grove and led them to victory.

Stories about the Great Frost are also found in lands far beyond Valdros, though they may not always refer to it as such. The World of Ice and Fire sourcebook explained that several cultures throughout the continent of Aravel have their own legends of ancient cataclysms, all of which (supposedly) occurred around the same time as the generation-long winter. Also in these legends, the ways in which the Great Frost was overcome all follow similar patterns to what is told in Valdros:
*Descendants of the Rhoynar people - who inhabited the regions of the modern-day Free Cities - claim that the mighty Rhoyne River froze as far south as one of its tributaries, the Selhoru (roughly where Myr and Tyrosh now lie), a claim which the maesters have confirmed with reasonable certainty. The Rhoynar believed that the Great Frost only ended when a single hero beseeched Mother Rhoyne, the goddess of the river, along with the minor deities that were her children, to join together and sing a magical song which brought back the dawn.
*In Yi Ti, it is said the Lion of Night - the primary god worshiped in the region - fathered a son on the Maiden-Made-of-Light. Known as God-on-Earth, he was the first emperor of Yi Ti's Great Empire of the Dawn (a semi-mythical civilization that allegedly existed during the Dawn Age before the Great Frost). Thousands of years later, a descendant of God-on-Earth known as the Amethyst Empress was usurped and murdered by her own brother, an event known as the Blood Betrayal. This caused the Maiden-Made-of-Light to turn away from humanity in shame, and the Lion of Night came forth in all his wrath to punish mankind's wickedness, inflicting the cold and darkness of the Great Frost. According to the stories, the sun hid its face from the world for a lifetime, ashamed at something none could discover, and disaster was only averted by the deeds of a woman with a monkey's tail.
*Stories about the Great Frost are even found as far east as Asshai. According to Seraphel, a great darkness descended upon the land, and a hero known as Flame Bearer wielded a flaming sword named Lightbringer in battle against the darkness to win back the dawn. The holy texts of the Lord of Radiance prophesy that there will come a time when the Great Frost will return, and Flame Bearer will be reborn to lead the people of the world to victory once again. This specific legend is apparently widespread across the Further East of Aravel, because Flame Bearer is also known as Hyrkoon the Hero, Yin Tar, Neferion, and Eldric Shadowchaser, depending on the region in which the story is told.

References

Notes

External links


 
Category:Wars

de:Lange Nacht
es:Larga Noche
fr:Longue Nuit
it:Lunga Notte
ru:Долгая ночь