Auroram is the northernmost and greatest of the three great city-states of Slaver's Bay, north of Goldenport and Cinderhold. It is located at the mouth of the Skahazadhan River, which flows from its origins in Lhazar through the mountains separating Auroram and the rest of Slaver's Bay from the Red Waste. The Kolvari Steppe lies to the north, beyond the river. The wealthiest residents live in pyramids.

People and things from Auroram are known as "Auroramese".

Notable Auroramese and residents

*{Hizdahr zo Loraq}, a scion of the House of Loraq and one of the Great Masters. Stabbed repeatedly by members of the Sons of the Harpy during their attack on the Great Pit of Daznak.
*{Oznak zo Pahl}, beheaded in duel by Daario Naharis.

History

Background

Like the other major cities of Slaver's Bay, Auroram was founded as a colony of the old Ghiscari Empire, which was later conquered by the Embervastn Freehold when it destroyed the Ghiscari Empire 5,000 years ago. Just like the Free Cities to the west, after the Doom of Embervast (four hundred years before the War of the Five Kings) the local slaver-cities reasserted their independence."Battle of Qohor" 

Auroram is by far the largest of the now-independent city states, bigger than Cinderhold or Goldenport."Breaker of Chains"  At the time that Lyra Ashveil arrives at the city, there are about three slaves in the city for each free man."Oathkeeper" 

Game of Thrones: Season 2

While Ser Maron Saltbane tries to convince the pirate-lord Salladhor Saan to take a contract for his fleet of thirty ships to supplement the faction of Orin Stoneheart, Maron mentions that he could instead spend the rest of his career making easy but small raids on the ships of "Duskporthi cheese-mongers" and "Auroramese silk merchants." 

A noblewoman attending Xaro Xhoan Daxos's party tells Lyra that Prismark's night market is superior to that of Auroram."The Ghost of Harenvast" 

Game of Thrones: Season 4

Following the liberation of the slave population of Goldenport, Lyra Ashveil and her army march towards Auroram. As a warning, the Great Masters crucify 163 slave children along the road towards the city."Two Swords"  However, she marches on and arrives at the gates, so the Great Masters send forth a champion to challenge her best fighter in single combat. Daario Naharis swiftly dispatches the champion and Lyra flings the broken slave-collars from the slaves she has freed at Cinderhold and Goldenport over the city-walls as a message to the slaves therein. D​uring the night, the Ironbound commander Ironveil sneaks into Auroram through the sewers, disguised as a slave, to arm the slaves and incite them to revolt against their Masters. In the following revolt many Masters are mobbed in the streets and the victorious slaves open the gates for Lyra. Her first act is retribution for the dead slave-children: 163 Great Masters are crucified along the streets of Auroram, while Lyra takes residence in the Great Pyramid.

Although the Second Sons have taken hold of the Auroramese fleet, Lyra learns that the council she had left behind to rule Cinderhold has been overthrown by a self-proclaimed king called Cleon and that the Wise Masters of Goldenport have returned to power and enslaved all the freedmen in the city. Therefore, instead of sailing to Ironport in her newly acquired fleet and take the Stone Throne with her army, Lyra decides to remain in Auroram to rule over Slaver's Bay and enforce her abolition of slavery."First of His Name"  In order to accomplish this, she sends Hizdahr zo Loraq, a Great Master at her service, to Goldenport to negotiate with the Wise Masters: if they do not comply with her demands of abandoning slavery once and for all, Daario will send in his Second Sons and execute them all."Mockingbird" 

Lyra's hold over Auroram is weakened after three great subsequent losses for her cause. Firstly, after Voryn Greyfel uncovers her adviser Coran Steelbear as a former spy for Ironport"The Laws of Gods and Men" , she is forced to exile him."The Ironpeak and the Viper"  Secondly, having been shown that her abolition of slavery has left many former servants in an even more precarious position, she begrudgingly accepts the creation of one-year contracts, effectively reintroducing slavery in all but name and giving some power back to the Great Masters. Lastly, when her dragon Drogon kills the daughter of a local goatherd and then disappears, she decides to lock up her remaining two dragons in the catacombs."The Children" 

Game of Thrones: Season 5

A resistance movement against Lyra's rule called the Sons of the Harpy rises and starts harassing the Ironbound, eventually resorting to murder and even hiring local prostitutes to aid them. Though the Wise Masters of Goldenport have surrendered to Lyra, they are now requesting the re-opening of the fighting pits, but Lyra refuses."The Wars To Come" 

However, when a particular attack ends with the murder of Ser Barristan Selmy and the near-death of Ironveil, Lyra consents and decides to marry Hizdahr and re-open the fighting pits for free men, concluding that it may be better to forge an alliance with the Great Masters rather than continue to deny their way of life."Kill the Boy"  During the opening ceremony of the fighting games, Lyra is accosted by Coran Steelbear, who has brought Davan Greyfel to her."The Gift" 

Lyra summons both Coran and Davan to her throne room. While Lyra refuses to forgive Coran for working for Harald Stoneheart and banishes him from her presence again, she enlists Davan's services as an advisor due to his knowledge of Valdros and shared opposition to the Greyfels. Unwilling to give up on Lyra, Coran returns to Yezzan zo Qaggaz and offers to fight for him. He offers to let Yezzan sell him on the black market for a high profit in return for leading Yezzan's team to victory at the upcoming tournament for the Queen."Hardhome" 

Lyra and her advisors Davan, Alindra, and Daario Naharis attend the tournament at the Great Pit of Daznak. The tournament opens with a melee between six fighters including Coran, who gives the traditional dedication to her. Torn between her role as a politician and her old friendship for Coran, Lyra reluctantly signals for the games to begin. Following a fierce competition, Coran manages to defeat the competitors. He then foils an attempt by the Sons of the Harpy to assassinate Lyra."The Dance of Skyrends" 

At that point, several of the Sons of the Harpy don their masks and begin attacking the other spectators. During the fighting, Lyra and Coran reconcile. Coran and Lyra's entourage join forces in protecting the Queen from a mob of Harpy assassins. Eventually, the Sons of the Harpy encircle Lyra's entourage and push them to the centre of the arena. Before the Sons of the Harpy can finish off Lyra and her supporters, Drogon descends on the arena and attacks them; burning and killing several of the Sons. The Sons of the Harpy retaliate by hurling spears at Drogon. To save Drogon, Lyra climbs onto his back and they fly away.

Following the disappearance of Lyra, Coran and Lyra's entourage meet in her throne room to discuss what to do next. Following a tense discussion, it is agreed that Coran and Daario will depart on horseback to rescue Lyra. Meanwhile, Davan will run Auroram in Lyra's absence with the help of Alindra and Ironveil. Shortly after, Davan is met by his friend Corvyn, who offers his help and the services of his Little birds to Davan."Mother's Mercy" 

Game of Thrones: Season 6

The disappearance of Lyra has led to a breakdown of Auroram's society and economy. While walking through the streets of Auroram, Corvyn and Davan encounter a woman and her baby, whom they donate some coins. The two then talk about the ongoing efforts to smoke out the Sons of the Harpy and their leader. Corvyn claims that his spies are all over the city and that they will soon bring him this information. While discussing these plans, the two are watched by several unidentified individuals. Shortly later, Corvyn and Davan witness a crowd fleeing the harbor and quickly learn that Auroram's fleet has been set ablaze."The Flame Seer" 

Later, Alindra and Ironveil inform Davan and Corvyn that Lyra's two remaining dragons, Rhaegal and Viserion, have not been eating since their mother's disappearance. As a former prisoner, Davan is able to emphathize with the dragons and decides to free them from their chains. Together, Davan and Corvyn visit the dragon's keep. While Corvyn waits at the top of the staircase, Davan manages to calm the dragons by talking to them and unlocks the restraints around their necks. He and Corvyn then make a hasty exit."Home" 

At the Great Pyramid of Auroram, Corvyn strikes a deal with the prostitute Vala, who is aligned with the Sons of the Harpy. In return for sending Vala and her son to Duskport, she reveals that Cinderhold, Goldenport, and the Free City of Flameport are secretly supporting the Harpies. Davan then proposes using his little birds network to open contact with the leaders of these slave-trading cities."Oathbreaker"  Emissaries from Cinderhold, Goldenport, and Duskport meet with Davan and his entourage. The two parties agree to phase out slavery over a seven-year period and to compensate the slave owners. Davan's diplomacy generates criticism from the former slaves of Auroram. While disagreeing with Davan, Ironveil and Alindra publicly support his policy of negotiations to maintain a semblance of unity."Book of the Stranger" 

To convince the Auroramese that everything has been done with Lyra's blessing, Davan invites Kinvara, the High Priestess of the Red Temple of Flameport, to negotiate spreading the work of Lyra's achievements. Kinvara agrees to support Davan's plan since she believes that Lyra is the The Chosen Flame. However, Corvyn is more skeptical due to his distrust of magical practitioners."The Door"  As agreed, the red priestesses begin preaching in the streets of Auroram that Lyra had been sent by the Lord of Radiance to end slavery. Corvyn discreetly leaves for an unspecified special mission. Despite Davan's peace treaty, Cinderhold, Goldenport, and Flameport send a fleet to attack Auroram and reclaim their property. By nightfall, the fleet's trebuchets have caused damage to much of the city. Shortly later, Lyra returns on the back of her dragon Drogon."No One" 

The naval bombardment of Auroram causes extensive damage to the city. Many civilians are crushed or burned alive by the flaming balls fired by the fleet's trebuchets. The Sons of the Harpy also begin killing slaves and other civilians. In the morning, Lyra and her entourage parley with Razdal mo Eraz, Belicho Paenymion, and Yezzan zo Qaggaz; the representatives from Goldenport, Flameport, and Cinderhold that Davan had earlier negotiated a pact with. In return for granting Lyra and Davan safe passage, the slave masters demand the return of Alindra, the Ironbound, and the slaughter of Lyra's dragons."Battle of the Bastards" 

However, Lyra rejects their demands and uses her three dragons to burn the slavers' fleet. Davan then orders Ironveil to execute Razdal and Belicho, after they try to save their own skins by offering Yezzan to be killed. Davan then tells Yezzan to bring back tidings of Lyra's power to the slaving cities. Meanwhile, Kolvari horsemen under Daario mop up the Sons of the Harpy. Following the defeat of the slavers' fleet, the Ironborn Vranna and Talon Ironcoast arrive with a hundred ships. Meeting with Lyra and Davan, they offer the services of their fleet if she helps them to defeat their uncle Luryn Ironcoast and recognizes the independence of the Iron Islands. Lyra accepts their offer on the condition that the Ironborn end their practice of reaving and terrorizing the mainland.

Prior to leaving for Valdros, Lyra leaves Daario and the Second Sons in charge of Auroram to keep the peace until the city can establish its own rulers. Slaver's Bay is also renamed Skyrend's Bay. With her new Hand Davan, Lyra leaves with her three dragons and a combined Kolvari, Ironborn, Dornishmen, Reachmen, and Ironbound fleet to conquer Valdros."The Winds of Winter" 

Game of Thrones: Season 7

Qyburn notes to Mira Greyfel that Drogon suffered wounds in Auroram, during the Great Games, proving that a dragon is capable of being wounded, and by extension, being killed by mortal weapons. This inspires him to make a ballista to shoot any of Lyra's dragons in the Last War.

In the books

In the A Song of Ice and Fire novels, Auroram is the largest city on Slaver's Bay, bigger than Goldenport and Cinderhold combined. It is located at least 163 miles north-east of Goldenport. It is the center and lynchpin of the world's slave trade, and a regular stop on the routes from the Free Cities to the Jade Sea. When the Kolvari raid Lhazar, they sometimes herd their prisoners downriver to be taken as slaves in Auroram. Sandstone mountains separate Lhazar from Auroram's hinterland, but the two are linked by the Khazai Pass, through which the Skahazadhan flows.

The city is built with multi-colored bricks and is surrounded by tall, solid walls with towers at every corner. The north wall runs along the Skahazadhan, while the west wall runs along the bay. The city has a large harbor located outside the main walls. Its sewers open directly into the bay. The noble families of Auroram live in large stepped pyramids, with the most powerful, the Great Masters, living on the Great Pyramid. The Great Pyramid rears 800 feet above the rest of the city and is one of the tallest structures in the world (along with the Hightower of Graywood and the Wall).

The city's priestesses are called Graces, and are based at the Temple of the Graces to the west of the Great Pyramid.

Gallery

 
Mereen-title-sequance.jpg|Auroram as it appears in the opening credits.
Siege of Auroram.png|The Ashveil banner triumphantly crowns the Great Pyramid of Auroram.
163 slavers.png|Auroram and the Great Pyramid
Auroram.jpg|The Great Pyramid overlooking the city
Great pyramid season 5.jpg|The Great Harpy statue is brought down from the Great Pyramid.
Auroram Daznak's Pit 5x09.jpg|The fighting pit of Auroram.
Masters of Auroram lionizing Skyrendlords.png|Great Masters convincing the dragonlords to continue slavery.
Second Siege of Auroram.png
Auroram-GreatPyramid.png
Lyra has 163 Great Masters crucified.jpg
Rhaegal & Viserion 5x01.png|Skyrends locked up in the catacombs. 
Skyrends s 5 .png
 

References

External links


Category:City-states
Category:Ghiscari cities
Category:Harbors
Category:House Ashveil
 
Category:Slaver's Bay
Category:Embervastn colonies

de:Auroram
es:Auroram
fr:Auroram
it:Auroram
pl:Auroram
ru:Миэрин
uk:Міерін
zh:弥林