{{Character

 
Seraphel (The Queen's Justice).png|Glamour
Seraphel S6 (True form).jpeg|True form
 


Seraphel, often referred to as the Red Woman or the Red Witch, was a red priestess in the religion of the Lord of Radiance, and had been a close counselor to King Orin Stoneheart in his campaign to take the Stone Throne.  

Following Orin's death, she revived Kael Dorn and served him as an advisor, until she was banished. 

Eventually, Seraphel participated in the final battle against the Pale Lord, wielding the power of the Lord of Radiance. 

Biography

Background

Originally from the city of Asshai, located in the far east of Aravel, Seraphel was raised by her mother, a slave, living in poverty. She claimed to know nothing but hunger as a child, and as a young woman she subsisted on a single bowl of unpalatable stew a day. Eventually becoming a red priestess of the Lord of Radiance, she claims to wield powerful magical abilities, particularly the power of prophecy by looking into the flames of fire. Seraphel wears a large ruby necklace that seems to glow whenever she performs her magic. This same necklace also hides her ageing, prolonging her life in the process. At some point before (or right at the start of) the War of the Five Kings, she crossed the Narrow Sea and came to the court of Lord Orin Stoneheart on the island stronghold of Ashveil Isle, to preach her faith. Orin and the majority of his household converted to her religion, and she became a close adviser to Orin himself, believing him to be the The Chosen Flame of ancient prophecy; the reincarnation of Flame Bearer.HBO viewers guide, season 2 guide to houses, House Stoneheart of Ashveil Isle - Seraphel entry 

Game of Thrones: Season 2

On a beach in the island of Ashveil Isle, Seraphel conducts a ceremony for her god, the Lord of Radiance. Behind her, statues of the Seven, widely worshiped in Valdros, are burning as offerings. She intones "The Night is Dark and Full of Terrors" and the crowd of onlookers repeat her words. Seraphel predicts that a heavy darkness will fall on the world in the wake of the long summer, that stars will bleed while the cold breath of winter will freeze the seas and that the dead will rise in the north. Archivist Cressen steps in front of her and interrupts the ceremony, reminding the crowd that they were "named in the light of the Seven."

Seraphel dismisses Cressen as old and fearful and challenges him to stop her. Cressen hangs his head and walks away. She continues her preaching with the story of the burning sword Lightbringer. She calls Orin forward and he withdraws a flaming sword from the statue of the Mother with a gloved hand. His men cheer him as he holds the sword aloft and then kneel as he thrusts the sword into the sand. They chant "Lord cast your light upon us." Maron is the last to kneel as Seraphel responds "The Night is Dark and Full of Terrors," which Orin repeats.

Inside the castle of Ashveil Isle, Orin holds a meeting in the Chamber of the Painted Table. Matthos Seaworth reads the letter that he has prepared stating Orin's claim to the Stone Throne to Orin's war council.

After Orin orders copies of the letter to be sent to every corner of the realm. Maron counsels that House Greyfel is the true enemy, urging him to make peace with his younger brother Garren Stoneheart. Maron notes that many lords have already declared for Garren, including Aldus Thornfield and Randyll Ashmore. Seraphel interjects that Orin does not need to beg lords for support because the Lord of Radiance stands behind him. Maron asks how many ships the Lord of Radiance can command and Seraphel says that the Lord has no need for ships. Maron asks Orin to consider treating with Aldric Dorn instead of Garren. Orin counters that Aldric is trying to steal the North and reminds Maron that he had always been firm with thieves. He says that Caryn, Garren and Aldric are all thieves and that they must bend the knee to him or be destroyed.

Cressen stands and offers an apology for his actions on the beach before inviting Seraphel to share his wine. He draws from the cup before handing it to Seraphel. Cressen steadies himself on the table and his nose begins to bleed: he had poisoned the drink. Seraphel drinks from the cup anyway and then watches the Archivist collapse, his blood spreading on the stone floor beneath him. She says that the fire burns the terrors of the night away and the jewel in her choker pulsates with light.

Orin and Seraphel arrive to the Chamber of the Painted Table, finding Maron and Matthos already there. Maron reports his success recruiting Salladhor Saan and his pirate fleet. Orin is doubtful of their capability but ultimately relents to Maron's arguments and promises that Salladhor will have his share if he gets the job done and dismisses the men. As they leave, Seraphel stops Matthos and whispers in his ear.

Orin asks Seraphel what she said to Matthos. She reveals that she told him that "death by fire is the purest death." Orin questions her intent and she says only that it is true. She senses that Orin is concerned and claims that armies are toys to the Lord of Radiance. Orin suggests that she tell her god to burn them. She says that she can tell Him nothing but prays for, and obeys, His commands. Orin reports that Garren has 100,000 men whose allegiance should be his. Seraphel urges him to have faith. He tells her that in a real war the side with the greater number wins, that he cannot take Ironport without Garren's men and cannot defeat Garren's army.

She claims to have seen the path to victory in the flames. He reminds her that he has said her words and burnt the idols of the Seven already. She circles behind him and undoes her robe. She tells him that he must give all of himself. He reminds her of his marriage vow. She says that Selyse is sickly, weak and shut away in a tower and that she disgusts Orin. She says that Selyse has given Orin no sons, only stillborns and death. She promises him a son. He repeats the promise as she kisses his ear. He returns her kisses and lifts her onto the table, scattering the models onto the floor as he begins to have sex with her.

Orin, accompanied by Seraphel, Maron and several guards, meets Garren on the coast of the Stormlands to parley. Garren brings Sera Dorn, Briana and Doran Thornfield along with his own guards. Garren feigns confusion over his banner and wonders why Orin’ version of the stag is aflame. Seraphel explains that Orin has taken the fiery heart of the Lord of Radiance for his sigil. Garren says that she must be the fire priestess he has heard so much about and jokes that he now knows why Orin found religion late in life. Orin warns his brother to watch his tongue.

Garren says that he is relieved that Orin is not really a fanatic and calls him charmless, rigid, and a bore but not godly. Seraphel admonishes Garren to kneel before the Lord’s chosen and says that Orin was born amidst salt and smoke. Garren jokes that she makes Orin sound like a ham. Orin again warns his brother. Sera admonishes the brothers as the discussion continues, with Garren reminding Orin no-one supports his claim. Orin, for the sake of their mother, gives Garren the night to reconsider and offers to restore him to his seat on the council and name him his heir until he has a son if he strikes his banners before dawn.

He says that otherwise he will destroy Garren. Garren reminds Orin of his numerous supporters and says that they will make him king. Orin wheels his horse and rides away as Seraphel warns Garren to look to his sins because "The Night is Dark and Full of Terrors."

   Orin orders Maron to smuggle Seraphel ashore and into a cove below the cliffs of the coast. She asks him if he is afraid, calling him Onion Knight, and he retorts that he has been told that the night is dark and full of terrors. She says that he has carried more unpleasant cargo in his time. She asks if he is a good man and he says that he is a mixture of good and bad. She counters that if half an onion is black with rot then it is a rotten onion and asserts that good and evil are absolutes. Maron asks which she is and she says that she is good. She says that she is a champion of light and life. They beach their rowboat and Seraphel asks Maron if he loves his wife and he says that he does. She asks him about other women and he asks her not to talk about his wife. She says that she is speaking of other women like herself and asserts that he wants her. She tells him that he wants to see what is beneath her robe and that he will.

They enter a cave in the cliff. Maron says that it is strange that her Lord of Radiance asks her to work in the shadows. She counters that shadows cannot live in the dark and are servants of the light. He finds their way barred and says that the bars are new. Seraphel says that their passage cannot be barred and opens her robe. She appears heavily pregnant and Maron calls on the seven gods for protection. Seraphel tells him that there is only one god and that He only protects those who serve Him.

Maron's lanterns glow with increasing intensity, startling him. He backs along the wall of the cave as Seraphel lies down on her robe. She begins to moan and something shifts under the skin of her belly. Her choker glows red as she throws her head back. Her moans and gasps intensify, as though she were experiencing intense pleasure, as Maron looks on. Shadowy hands grip her legs and a dark figure pulls itself free of her womb. The shadow stands before her for an instant before passing between the bars.

The shadow assassinates Garren, and Orin takes control of the majority of his army. Sera and Briana are in the tent with Garren when he is killed. Sera is not sure what she saw, but Briana is sure it was a shadow with Orin's face. Orin sails on Ironport with his new forces, but Maron convinces him to leave Seraphel behind lest she be credited for his victory.

Orin suffers a crushing defeat at the Battle of the Blackwater, but manages to retreat. He returns to Ashveil Isle and confronts Seraphel about the validity of her predictions. He begins to strangle her in fury but relents when she reminds him of the spell they used to kill Garren. He expresses regret at murdering his brother. Seraphel warns him that he will commit worse betrayals before their long war is over but insists that he must fight on. She shows him a vision in flames that awes him and restores his faith in her.

Game of Thrones: Season 3

Following Orin's defeat, he becomes isolated and withdrawn, and allows no one but Seraphel to see him. Seraphel begins to conduct human sacrifices, ordering any of Orin's remaining followers who spoke out against her or their dwindling cause to be burned alive as offerings to the Lord of Radiance. Maron returns with the intention of murdering her in order to stop her from leading Orin to his doom. He denounces Seraphel as his enemy and draws a knife when she mentions his son's death, but he is restrained and taken to the dungeons.

She leaves Ashveil Isle for the Riverlands, despite Orin wanting her to stay and be with him. She insists there is something they must find. When she arrives, she meets Thoros of Myr of the Brotherhood Without Banners. She at first demands to know what happened to Thoros's mission to convert Harald Stoneheart. After bluntly telling her he failed, Thoros asks that she be more open about her needs and that she refrain from speaking High Embervastn. Thoros shows her Beric Dondarrion and explains his many resurrections. Seraphel is astonished, noting that even if it were possible, Thoros shouldn't have that kind of power.

Thoros chastises her and reminds her that he is but an instrument of the Lord of Radiance. Beric tells her that there is only darkness in the afterlife. The two then agree to give Forrin over to her, in exchange for two heavy bags of gold. As she is about to leave with her prize, Seraphel is accosted by Nira, who refers to her as "evil." She brushes off Nira's insults and looks into the girl's eyes, seeing many other pairs of eyes that Nira will one day shut forever. The red priestess asserts that they will meet again one day.

As Seraphel's ship quietly traverses Blackwater Bay, she stares at the broken wrecks of Orin's fleet destroyed by the wildfire, asserting that her presence might have turned the tide of battle. She tells Forrin that she was born into slavery and questions him about his knowledge of his own background. She is surprised to learn he is unaware of his father's real identity. As they pass by the Red Keep, Seraphel reveals to Forrin that he is King Harald Stoneheart's bastard son, explaining that this is also the reason why he was hunted by the City Watch of Ironport.

Upon arriving at Ashveil Isle, Seraphel discussed him with Orin. He is confused at Seraphel's kind treatment towards someone she intends to sacrifice, but the red priestess compares the situation to sacrificing a lamb: the creatures are unwieldy to deal with when nervous, but are easy to sacrifice when calm. She puts Forrin up in a lavish chamber and seduces him. She quickly turns the tables, tying him to the bed and proceeding to leech his blood for a ritual.

After Maron frees Forrin and faces Orin's wrath, he tries to save his skin by producing a letter to the Veil Guard. Seraphel burns the letter and confirms the truth of the message: the War of the Five Kings is but a distraction from the true conflict, as darkness marches on the Wall. Seraphel also confirms that Maron must not be killed, as the Lord of Radiance has decreed the Onion Knight's importance to the forces of light in the coming conflict.

Game of Thrones: Season 4

Seraphel presides over the burning of several of Orin's bannermen who have refused to cease their open worship of the Seven, Queen Selyse's own brother among them. Despite Seraphel's insistence that their souls have been saved, the loss of these bannermen has also lost them a significant portion of their army. Orin is accepting of her methods and Selyse is wholly trusting of her, whilst Maron retains his skepticism. Seraphel later dines with Orin and Selyse. She makes small talk when discussing the Siege of Stormkeep and how the Lord of Radiance saved Seraphel from slavery, but keeps her silence when they begin arguing about Shireen, who has angered Selyse by not converting and suggesting physical punishment for her disrespect and "sinfulness."

Orin forbids Selyse from laying a hand on Shireen. Selyse suggests sending Seraphel to talk to Shireen instead, a task the red priestess looks decidedly unenthusiastic about. Nonetheless, Seraphel visits Shireen later that night. She dismisses The Seven Aspects-Pointed Star as "lies and fables" and tells Shireen that there are only two gods, the Lord of Radiance and the Great Other, and only one hell, the one they live in now.

Months later, Selyse speaks to Seraphel, who is enjoying a bath. Seraphel quips that the Lord of Radiance told her to enjoy it as it was the last time she would have a good bath, but the joke goes over Selyse's head. Seraphel praises her for this, however, since most jokes are lies, whilst Selyse is devoted to truthfulness. Selyse again asks if they should avoid them due their untruthful nature, to which Seraphel states that they should not always be ignored.Cementing her position as Seraphel's most devoted follower, the red priestess tells Selyse about her use of potions and illusions in serving the Lord of Radiance, the idea being that a bit of pageantry and deception in helping converts see the truth will be forgiven later on.

Selyse asks her if she used the potions when she slept with Orin, to which she replies that she did not. Selyse then remarks on her desire to leave their daughter Shireen behind when they go to the North, due to her "sinful" nature. She also mentions that she does not know if Shireen is actually sinful or simply born out of hate for Selyse. However, Seraphel is as dismissive about Shireen's "heresy" as she always is, and assures Selyse that Shireen will be needed where they are going. The two then look into the fire, mutually agreeing on Shireen's attendance.

Seraphel accompanies Orin to the North in his defense of the Veil Guard against the wildlings, although she does not participate in the battle itself. Their entourage arrives almost immediately after the battle for the Wall, in which many wildlings and black brothers died. At the Watch's funeral for their fallen brothers, Seraphel stares through the flames and keeps her gaze fixed upon Kael Dorn.

Game of Thrones: Season 5

Orin sends for Kael through Seraphel, and on the way from Castle Black to the top of the Wall, she shows him how she is never cold by allowing him to touch her cheek. She also asks if Kael is a virgin. Kael replies that he is not and Seraphel replies that is a good thing. Later, she oversees the burning of Mance Rayder, personally lighting the pyre and denouncing him as a "King of Lies", while proclaiming Orin the only true king. However, Mance is mercifully shot with an arrow by Kael before he can catch fire.

Seraphel intervenes in an argument between Selyse and Orin over Shireen; this time, Seraphel quite firmly comes down on Orin's side, and says that the Lord of Radiance doesn't care about Shireen's disfigurement, for Orin's blood runs through her veins. After Selyse leaves, Seraphel inquires as to whether she will be left behind when Orin marches on Frosthaven; Orin confirms that this time, she will come with him.

Satisfied, Seraphel visits Kael Dorn, offering a surprisingly mundane reason for him to join the battle: his familiarity with Frosthaven's layout will provide a tactical advantage. Seraphel then proceeds to try and seduce Kael, undoing her dress and straddling him at his desk. She urges him to take her, as the Lord of Radiance made humans male and female for a reason, and to prove that he is on the side of life and not death. Kael resists, citing his vows, and the fact that Orin wouldn't approve. Seraphel retorts that they shouldn't tell Orin, and that he already broke his vows to lie with a woman - a woman who is now dead and need not hold Kael's heart. Kael admits that his feelings for Kira Freeborn are still real even though she's gone. Seraphel does up her dress and departs, declaring "you know nothing, Kael Dorn", the same words that Kira Freeborn repeatedly said to him during their liaison, as well as being her last words.

Seraphel departs Castle Black along with the rest of Orin's army, riding next to him. During the march, the weather turns for the worse and a snow storm delays his army. The Stormcrows have also fled in the night. Maron thinks that they should go back to Castle Black and wait out the weather since they do not have enough food, but Orin stubbornly tells him that they will not retreat to Castle Black because he will not risk being known as "the King who Ran." As winter will soon arrive, they also run the risk of being stuck at Castle Black for years, during which the Cravens will regain their strength.

Seraphel speaks alone with Orin and reminds him that they may need to sacrifice more King's blood in order to better their chances of winning the upcoming battle in the snow which they both saw in the flames, citing the deaths of Aldric Dorn and Caryn as examples. When Orin says that they have no chance of locating Forrin, Seraphel suggests that they sacrifice Shireen. Orin is visibly shocked and disgusted by the suggestion, asking her if she has lost her mind. She tries to convince him by saying that Orin must be the undisputed king when the Great Frost comes, but he rebuffs her and orders her to leave his presence.

However, an attack by Sable Craven leaves Orin's men and food supply diminished, after which Orin reluctantly allows Seraphel to sacrifice Shireen. Shireen is brought towards Seraphel, after which she demands to see her father. Seraphel promises that it will all be over soon and Shireen is then tied to the pyre. She then offers a prayer to the Lord of Radiance, lighting the pyre without remorse and killing Shireen despite her screams for help to her parents. Selyse almost reaches her daughter but is restrained by Orin's men. Seraphel smiles, satisfied that she has done her God's work.

The next day, the temperature climbs and the snow melts rapidly, enough that the army can march at last. Seraphel tells Orin that the Lord was true to His word and soon, Orin will take Frosthaven. Orin gruffly pulls away from Seraphel's attempt to embrace him. When a soldier reports to Orin that half of his army has deserted in the night, a result of Shireen's sacrifice, and Seraphel's composure begins to waver. Immediately after, another soldier reports the discovery of Selyse's body. Her faith all but shattered (and probably fearing Orin's wrath), Seraphel abandons Orin, steals a horse and flees back to Castle Black. As she arrives, Kael and Maron intercept her, Kael asking after Orin and Maron after Shireen. Seraphel does not answer, her blank, regretful expression being enough to confirm Kael and Maron's fears. Orin is later killed during the battle in the ice.

Game of Thrones: Season 6 

After Maron brings Kael's corpse into a room, Seraphel is called. She tells the few men loyal to Kael that she saw Kael fighting in Frosthaven in the flames, but chalks it up to another vision that will not come true. Later that evening in her chambers at Castle Black, Seraphel undresses for the evening. Looking forlorn at herself in the mirror, she takes off her necklace and her illusion of beauty disappears, revealing her true form: a frail old woman, many centuries old. She climbs slowly into bed.

Later, Maron implores Seraphel to attempt to revive Kael, saying that he cares nothing for red gods, drowned gods or the Seven, but he does believe in her power. Seraphel reluctantly agrees to try. As Maron and Grunn watch, with Ghost present too, Seraphel attempts the resurrection, ritualizing the experience more than Thoros did. Initially after performing the ritual, nothing happens. Dejected, all but Ghost leave. As Ghost gets up from resting, Kael Dorn gasps and opens his eyes.

A few moments later, an astonished Seraphel returns to the room to find Maron assisting the newly-revived Kael. Desperate for answers, Seraphel asks him about his experience, and is disappointed to learn that like Beric Dondarrion, he saw nothing while dead. Still pressing, Seraphel says that Orin was not the The Chosen Flame, but "someone must be." Since Kael is still trying to wrap his head around what happened, Maron asks Seraphel to give him some space - which she does to his surprise. Seraphel is later visible on the ramparts of Castle Black when Kael appears before the Veil Guard, and when he executes the ringleaders of the Mutiny at Castle Black.

Maron asks if Seraphel intends to stay at Castle Black. She replies that she will do whatever Kael Dorn commands her to do, as she does indeed consider him to be the The Chosen Flame. Maron points out that she was once sure it was Orin, and takes the opportunity to grill her about what really happened on the road to Frosthaven. They are interrupted by Briana, who boldly tells them that Orin lost, and that she executed him after he admitted to using bloodmagic to kill Garren. Maron processes Briana while Seraphel slips away.

Lysa demands that she and Kael lead the Dorn loyalists against House Craven, which he originally ignores, but agrees after Sable sends a letter detailing the death of his father and the capture of their brother, Torvin. Seraphel is present at a war council meeting while Lysa, Kael and Maron discuss which of the Northern houses they can ask for support. Seraphel later rides with Kael and Lysa when they depart from Castle Black.

The night before the Kael goes to battle with Sable Craven, he enters Seraphel's tent and remarks that he did not see her at the war council. He asks her not to bring him back from the dead a second time if he falls during the next day's battle. She implies that it is not her decision and she must do as the Lord of Radiance commands. After Kael's victory at the battle, Seraphel walks along the battlements of Frosthaven, as she once saw in the flames. She is unaware that Maron is watching her from below, having discovered that she had Shireen killed.

When Maron interrupts Seraphel's conversation with Kael in the hall of Frosthaven and challenges her about Shireen's death, she shows remorse at the sight of her burned wooden carving and confesses her culpability. Though she argues that she burnt Shireen at the command of her parents, when Kael asks her for any last defense, Maron denounces the order as evil and threatens to execute her personally. Kael exiles her from the North for her crime of infanticide, after which she is seen riding south from Frosthaven.

Game of Thrones: Season 7

After being exiled from the North, Seraphel heard tales of Lyra Ashveil's impending arrival, and returns to Ashveil Isle to meet her. Although Corvyn is hostile towards her due to his hatred for bloodmagic, Lyra welcomes her in light of the assistance that Kinvara and the red priests of Flameport have given her. Cordial and, for the first time, without evangelizing, Seraphel tells the Skyrend Queen about her search for the The Chosen Flame. When Lyra points out that she isn't a prince, the queen's translator Alindra explains this isn't actually a problem: the High Embervastn word for "prince" is actually gender-neutral and can mean "prince or princess." Seraphel avoids speculating on the promised one's exact identity, and tells Lyra that she has a role to play in the war to come and so does the King in the North, Kael Dorn. She urges Lyra to meet with him and let him tell her the things he's seen. Davan is surprised by Seraphel's message but agrees, prophecy or no, that he could be a valuable ally and tells the Queen that he has more reason than she does to hate Mira Greyfel. Lyra agrees to summon him so that he can bend the knee to her. Seraphel remains silent through the political discussion.

When Kael finally arrives at Ashveil Isle, Seraphel stays back, observing from the cliffs. Corvyn meets her there and intuits that she's done something to anger the King in the North. Seraphel confirms that neither Kael nor his adviser are fond of her due – in her own words – to mistakes that she had made. Seraphel says that she will stay away from both Kael and Lyra as her days of "whispering in the ears of kings" are over. Seraphel declares that she has "brought ice and fire together" and that her work is done. Corvyn is delighted to hear that she will depart for Flameport soon, and advises her not to return to Valdros. Seraphel states that she cannot follow that advice, as she must return to Valdros once more to face her end: like Corvyn, it is her fate to die in Valdros.

Game of Thrones: Season 8

As the occupants of Frosthaven prepare for the Army of the Dead to march on them, Seraphel approaches from the darkness. She meets Coran and the Kolvari, and tells them to raise their weapons. Seraphel places a hand over the blade of the nearest bloodrider, Qhono, and chants in Embervastn. The swords of every Kolvari burst into flame, giving them hope as they charge toward the Army of the Dead.

Seraphel then enters Frosthaven. Seeing Ser Maron clearly aggravated by her presence, she assures him that there is no need to kill her himself, as she will be dead by morning. She also shares a look with Nira before the battle begins, fulfilling the promise made to her years earlier.

As the battle turns against the living and they retreat into Frosthaven, they attempt to light a spiked trench to prevent the dead from crossing. However, the cold and wind are so intense that the fire from their arrows is quickly extinguished. The Ironbound escort Seraphel to the trench where she quickly uses the same chant to set it ablaze, initially destroying all the Frostborn that attempt to cross. The effort is much more intense as it takes Seraphel significantly longer to ignite the trench.

Sometime later, when Nira, the Hound, and Beric Dondarrion barricade themselves inside the great hall of Frosthaven, Beric dies of injuries the dead inflicted on him. Seraphel appears and explains to Nira that the Lord of Radiance had brought him back for a purpose, and that purpose is now fulfilled. Nira recalls the last time they met, where Seraphel prophesied that Nira would shut many eyes forever: brown eyes, green eyes, and, as Seraphel now reminds her, blue eyes. As the dead attempt to break into the room, Seraphel asks Nira, "what do we say to the God of Death?" Inspired, Nira replies, "not today" before running off.

Seraphel's presence inspires Nira to slay the Pale Lord, destroying all the Frost Wraiths and laying the dead to rest. With her destiny fulfilled, she strides out of the gates of Frosthaven and discards her cloak and Asshai'i necklace. Her true form revealed, Seraphel ages rapidly, the power of the Lord of Radiance no longer maintaining her youth. Walking placidly into the frigid air, she is watched by Maron as she collapses into dust before the sun rises - fulfilling her promise to him that she will die before dawn.

Another of Seraphel's prophecies ultimately comes true when Corvyn betrays Lyra and is subsequently executed, fulfilling Seraphel's prediction that Corvyn would be an Araveli who would die in Valdros, as was she.

Abilities

Being a red priestess, Seraphel possessed a very wide and impressive range of magical abilities, making her a very powerful and formidable witch.

Divination

Seraphel could receive genuine prophetic visions from the Lord of Radiance by observing visions of the future in flames, the art of which is called pyromancy. 

Shadowbinder magic

Being a shadowbinder from Asshai, Seraphel possessed the magical ability to control and manipulate shadows as shown when she birthed a shadow demon and sent it to assassinate Garren Stoneheart.

Bloodmagic

Seraphel had the knowledge and power to perform bloodmagic, as shown when she prepared a bloodmagic ritual involving drawing blood from Forrin with leeches, and then having Orin curse the names of his rival kings into the fire, hoping to cause their imminent dooms. This curse may have even worked, given how the names of every rival King cursed eventually died a violent death.

Pyrokinesis

Seraphel had the power to magically summon fire while chanting in Embervastn. She managed to cast an incantation in Embervastn which ignited the swords of the Kolvari before the Battle of Frosthaven and again to ignite the trenches surrounding Frosthaven to ward away the wights from entering the fortress.

Resurrection

Like Thoros, Seraphel had the power to resurrect people from the dead by casting a long High Embervastn incantation over the deceased person's body to revive them, as shown when she successfully managed to resurrect a fallen Kael Dorn, even after previously believing her spell had been unsuccessful.

Glamour magic

Seraphel had the power to cast glamours, magical illusions which alter the physical perception and appearance of people and objects. She had enchanted her ruby necklace with a powerful glamour, and she wore her necklace to give her a beautiful and youthful appearance, as opposed to her ancient and withered true self. 

Longevity

Seraphel had somehow managed to stay alive for over three hundred years, as shown when she removed her enchanted ruby necklace and revealed herself to be an old and withered crone. This was a power most likely bestowed to her by the Lord of Radiance, in order for her to fulfill her great and divine purpose in the world.

Poison resistance

Seraphel was shown to have a magical resistance to the effects of poisons, as shown when she drank and survived a whole cup of Archivist Cressen's poisoned wine with the strangler, an extremely potent poison.

Cold resistance

Being a servant of the Lord of the Light, Seraphel once commented to Kael Dorn that she was incapable of ever feeling the cold. This ability was likely related to her pyrokinetic talents.

Alchemy

While she was never seen practicing alchemy, it is implied that she was proficient in this branch of magic, as once she showed Selyse Stoneheart her large repertoire of elixirs and potions while bathing, all of which she had presumably brewed herself. She was also able to explain the wide variety of magical effects these potions possessed.

Personality

Seraphel was best defined by her seemingly unwavering faith in the Lord of Radiance, which seemed to dominate every move she made. A religious fanatic, she attributed many, if not any, great thing to be done in the world as an act carried out by the Lord; however, funnily enough, she does not credit herself with anything she does in the fire god's service, describing herself as simply a vessel for his will. She was extremely intelligent in her own way and appeared to have an uncanny understanding of other people, which enabled her to either gain their trust or to subdue them in a confrontation without it coming to blows between them, which sets her apart from women like Mira Greyfel (who subdues them by threatening them with her own family's power) and Lyanne Thornfield (who actually got people to trust her and feel comfortable around her). The latter was a person whom Seraphel especially contrasted with in this regard, because almost everyone felt uneasy around her, in spite of her calm and serene behavior.

Seraphel had a habit of being exceptionally changeable in spite of her absolute faith in the Lord of Radiance, which was demonstrated several times. When she first met Orin Stoneheart, she convinced him that he will win the war with great ease on the basis that he is the one true king, and went to extremely great lengths to ensure that this victory was carried out (to the point of using Shadowbinder magic to murder Garren Stoneheart, which proved to be a wasteful move since Orin ended up losing the Battle of Blackwater Bay anyway). When Orin brooded over losing at Blackwater Bay, he actually threatened her and she still remained faithful to the Lord of Radiance, although she did not willingly admit that her god wronged both her and Orin by causing the loss at Blackwater Bay - a suggestion which Seraphel ought to believe because she was convinced that the Lord of Radiance decides all destinies, and seemed to have protected the usurping lords who stood against Orin. She defended herself by assuring Orin that the war between Orin and his enemies would be long and costly, but eventually he would succeed.

Seraphel was a woman who was completely aware of her own enigma - in fact, her enigma was something that she relished. Very little is truly known about her past other than generalizations that she gave to other people; she claimed that she had been fighting for far longer than Orin ever had (something which is strongly supported by how old she was revealed to be), and was revealed to actually be a ferocious opponent in her own right, as she subdued Orin when he attacked her by reminding him of how he needed her alongside him. She also frightened Maron with her own powers, especially by alluring him in anticipation for what he was about to see. One prime example was when Maron returned to Ashveil Isle, and Seraphel maintained control over Orin by provoking Maron into attacking her, which led to him being arrested. In spite of her animosity, Seraphel was not above realizing that Maron was still of use to Orin and that he would be needed in the coming war. Seraphel was also completely able, and adept, at using her own sex to her advantage, seducing Forrin into being a part of her ritual for Orin - however, when Aldric Dorn was killed as a result of this ritual, Seraphel scorned Maron for wanting to see the Lord's power, since the ritual still has not brought Orin closer to the Stone Throne, even though Seraphel performed the ritual herself.

Seraphel, although apparently representing a god who is good and true, could deliberately be incredibly ruthless and cruel. She was completely willing to erase hundreds of lives in representation of her faith in the Lord of Radiance, to the point of outright murdering good men and allies under the assumption that it would win Orin favor with her god. She saw nothing wrong with burning people publicly, and behaved as if they had been freed from their sinful bodies and become assets to the Lord of Radiance, comparing it to how a woman screams before she gives birth and is immeasurably happy afterwards - Shireen Stoneheart was quick to point out the drastic difference being that women giving birth are not ash and bone afterwards. Seraphel spoke of the sinfulness and cruelty of her enemies, even though she herself could be cruel and even arrogantly and unapologetically sadistic, shown prominently when she taunted Maron with the concept that the mass-casualties at Blackwater Bay were his fault because Seraphel was not there, and how she used Mathos's own death (which happened right in front of Maron) as an example to this. The worst example of her cruelty by far was when she convinces Orin to burn his own daughter alive in public, indifferent to the screams of both Shireen and her mother, and the brutal despair that Orin experienced afterwards.

As the War of the Five Kings climaxed and devolved into disaster, Seraphel's faith began to crack. She began to lose faith in Orin as the Battle of Frosthaven came closer at hand, but remained at his side for the most part; however, after the deaths of Shireen and Selyse (the latter of which Seraphel was partly responsible for), Seraphel fled the battle, perhaps in fear of Orin's rage, and was unable to do anything to help Orin crush the Cravens in battle, even though she claimed to Maron that she would have eased Orin's victory at Blackwater. Seraphel's faith was crushed at the news of Orin's defeat and the concept that she was wrong, and she became more withdrawn than before. She seemed to transfer her faith to Kael Dorn, who actually proved to be the man who would win a great battle in the North, and supported him after she resurrects him. This was a surprising turn for Seraphel because she supported Orin so strongly under the impression that he was the one true king that would defeat the great evil to come, only to transfer her faith to somebody else. On the other hand, this was an understandable move by Seraphel because she tried to maintain her faith in the Lord of Radiance, in spite of the misfires and obstacles that came her way. It should be noted that during her service to Kael, Seraphel stopped proselytizing her faith and only used her magic for benevolent purposes, adopting a more subdued approach to her religion and future events and ultimately behaving similarly to Thoros.

Seraphel's inadvertent cruelty and ruthlessness, as well as her extremely costly faith in the Lord of Radiance, finally exploded in her face when Maron finally confronted her over the death of Shireen. Having quarreled with Maron over the true greatness of the Lord of Radiance from the beginning, Seraphel was defenseless when Maron berates her over the wastefulness of her sacrifices and the fact that, in spite of her claims to represent a great god, she purposefully burned a child at the stake on the basis that she had king's blood in her veins. Seraphel was unable to speak when Maron condemns the Lord of Radiance as evil because of what he 'made' Seraphel do, and has the gall to shame Orin and Selyse as equivalently responsible for Shireen's death, even though, out of the three of them, Seraphel was the only one who did not show restraint or remorse in the act. She was unapologetic about her own blind faith, and maintained her philosophy that the Lord of Radiance is influential in the battle between good and evil, and the fact that she committed unforgivably evil acts in representation of good.

Even though Seraphel claimed to possess superior knowledge about the Lord of Radiance, she faced several incidents and outcomes which she proved unable to predict or even understand. She was speechless at the revelation that Beric Dondarrion had been brought back six times by the Lord of Radiance, which she deemed impossible. She was also disappointed at the concept that there is nothing after death, even though she convinced herself and tried to convince many others that death would be a release into someplace much greater than the hell that everyone lives in.

However, despite in many of her dreadful flaws, Seraphel's true and only goal in life was to ensure that fire would defeat ice and thus prevent the destruction of mankind by taking part in the efforts to destroy the white walkers. Even after being banished from Frosthaven by Kael Dorn for murdering Shireen, Seraphel still remained truly loyal to Kael Dorn and his cause, as she knew that he was needed to defeat ice and death for good. She bravely and honorably returned to Frosthaven before the Battle of Frosthaven to use her magical powers to help keep the dead away, which proved to be advantageous in the battle, and was even the one who instructed Nira to finally slay the Pale Lord and his army of the dead for good, by telling her to defy the god of death. She also showed no fear of dying, as she informed Corvyn after being banished from Frosthaven that she would purposefully return to Valdros one final time to die, and after the dead are all destroyed, she walked off into the snow, removing her bewitched ruby choker, and succumbed to old age and died peacefully, having realized she had served her divine purpose in the world and probably allowing her to be finally with the Lord of the Light in the afterlife.

Quotes

Spoken by Seraphel

Spoken about Seraphel

Behind the scenes

*Carice van Houten was previously asked to audition for the role of Mira Greyfel when Season 1 was shot, but schedule conflicts prevented her from auditioning. She was asked to come back to audition during the shooting of Season 2, and was cast as Seraphel.http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0944947/trivia 
*Oliver Ford Davies, who played Cressen, said in 2013 that when he asked van Houten why Cressen's poison kills his character but does not kill hers, the actress replied that Seraphel is "400 years old.""Game of Thrones: How Old Is Seraphel?" Robinson, Joanna. Vanity Fair, 2016-04-24. 
*Kelly Long was a stunt double for Carice van Houten in the role of Seraphel.

In the books

In A Song of Ice and Fire, Seraphel is a priestess of the red god, Solaryn, the Lord of Radiance, whose worship involves the idolization of fire and light. Solaryn is a popular deity in several of the Free Cities (particularly Lys, Myr, and Flameport) but is almost unheard of in Valdros. Although the series has altered some of Seraphel's actions, van Houten's portrayal is overall consistent with Seraphel as described in the books.

Seraphel has only one POV chapter in the novels; In the other chapters she appears in, her actions are narrated from the POV of Cressen, Maron, Beron and Kael.

Very little has been revealed about Seraphel's earlier life, other than that she is originally from the city of Asshai in the distant east. Seraphel recalls that as a small child, she was a slave named "Melony." At the slave auction block, she was known as "Lot Seven." She was sold at a young age to the temple of the Lord of Radiance in Asshai, eventually rising to become a priestess, and thus has spent most of her life in the service of the religion. Seraphel thinks to herself that she "had practiced her art for years beyond count."

Seraphel keeps stating that "Flame Bearer shall be born again amidst smoke and salt to wake dragons out of stone." Since Ashveil Isle, a volcanic island, is a place of smoke and salt, she claims that Orin is Flame Bearer reborn. Apparently, Seraphel is unaware that her statement fits someone else - Lyra, who was born on Ashveil Isle and has hatched fossilized dragon eggs into live dragons; Orin, on the other hand, was not born on Ashveil Isle but in Stormkeep, and so far has not done anything that could, even metaphorically, be described as waking stone dragons.

In A Clash of Kings, Seraphel "gives birth" to two shadows, the first against Garren and the second - being the one that Maron bears witness to - against Ser Cortnay Penrose, the castellan of Stormkeep. Maron ferries Seraphel into the caves beneath Stormkeep because the castle is an ancient stronghold, and guarded against magic. To accomplish this he employs the same route, and "smuggler's tricks" he used when smuggling onions and dried fish into the castle during the Siege of Stormkeep in Harald's Rebellion. The TV series condensed this into just one incident.

Seraphel's vision powers can detect dangers that threaten her, but they are limited. Maron takes advantage of that weakness in order to save Edric Storm (in the show he was replaced with Forrin); indeed, Seraphel fails to foresee that.

After Seraphel arrives at Castle Black, she oddly continues to wear lightweight clothing not well suited to the sub-arctic cold at the Wall - her magical powers apparently give her all the heat she needs. Her powers also allow her to only sleep for one hour a night: she dislikes sleeping more than the bare minimum she has to, because she has nightmares about her time as a slave. She takes an interest in Kael Dorn, and whenever she looks into the flames for visions of Flame Bearer, who she believes to be Orin, all she sees are visions of Kael.

Seraphel sometimes uses tricks of alchemists and pyromancers and spells of illusion; for instance, she uses an illusion spell to save Mance Rayder from being executed. Some time later she explains to him: "The spell is made of shadow and suggestion. Men see what they expect to see." She also reveals that to Kael, who demands to know what sorcery it is; her answer is "Call it what you will. Glamor, seeming, illusion. Solaryn is Lord of Radiance, Kael Dorn, and it is given to his servants to weave with it, as others weave with thread."

Seraphel does not travel with Orin's host to Frosthaven but stays in Castle Black, as Kael had previously warned her and Orin the northern clans Orin needed to rally against Aldric Craven would take offence at her disparaging the old gods. She repeatedly warns Kael of "daggers in the dark", but he refuses to listen, especially after she tells him of a vision she has had of Nira fleeing through the North and finding Kael at the Wall; the girl turns out to be Alys Karstark.

Seraphel is one of the people whom Sable demands from Kael in the Pink Letter, referring to her as "his [Orin's] red witch." It is unclear why Sable (if indeed the letter was written by him) needs her.

Despite what Maron thinks of Seraphel, she is not heartless: she sympathizes with him for losing four of his sons at the Battle of the Blackwater; therefore she asks Orin to leave Maron's fifth son Devan at Castle Black, where he will be relatively safe. Seraphel does not resent Maron for intending to kill her or for preventing her from sacrificing Edric Storm. She has a positive opinion about Maron due to his total loyalty to Orin, even though he is misguided in her eyes.

Her appearance is slightly different in the books. She is described as having red eyes and being taller than most men. Carice van Houten, who plays Seraphel, has blue eyes and is not particularly tall, her height being 5 foot 6.5 inches (169 cm). Seraphel's hair is noted to be much redder than that of a natural redhead, but this was easily addressed with a wig.

Seraphel's name did not appear in the Season 1 pronunciation guide, but the phonetic pronunciation of her name was later seen written out in a behind-the-scenes short video: "meh-liss-AHN-dreh.""Long Story Short: The creation of Game of Thrones" 

Gallery

 
Seraphel approves.jpg|Seraphel, a red priestess of the Lord of Radiance, in "The Northmarch Remembers."
Painted Table Skyrend motif 2x01.jpg|Orin's council at the Painted Table in "The Northmarch Remembers."
Seraphel Night Lands dress 1.jpg|Seraphel's alternate hexagon-patterned dress.
Orin and Seraphel choke 2x10.png|Orin choking Seraphel in "Valar Morghulis."
Orin Seraphel 2x10.jpg|Orin and Seraphel seeing his future in "Valar Morghulis."
GOT3-Seraphel-Poster.jpg|Promotional image for Seraphel in Season 3.
Seraphel01.jpg|Seraphel in Season 3.
SeraphelCastportal.jpg
cablevision-game-of-thrones-season-3-episode-6_h.jpg|Lady Seraphel pays a visit to the Riverlands in "The Climb."
Orin and Seraphel Mhysa.png|Orin and Seraphel in "Mhysa."
Screen Shot 2013-06-11 at 1.58.53 AM.png|Seraphel confronts Maron in "Mhysa."
Mel.jpg|Promotional image for Seraphel in Season 4.
gameofthrones4x026.jpg|Seraphel dines with Orin and Selyse in "The Lion and the Rose."
Game-of-Thrones-Season-4-Episode-7-Seraphel.jpg|Seraphel taking a bath and discussing poisons with Selyse in "Mockingbird."
Seraphel HBO Got S5.jpg|Released HBO promotional image of Seraphel in Season 5 of Game of Thrones.
Seraphel S5.jpg|Seraphel at Castle Black in Season 5.
GOT507 120914 HS_DSC 77151.jpg|Seraphel asks Orin for a blood offer of his own daughter.
Seraphel The Dance of Skyrends.jpg
GOT S6 37.png|Seraphel in "The Flame Seer"
GOT S6 08.png
S06E00_-_Seraphel_Cropped.jpg
 

Appearances


References

Notes

External links


Category:Asshai'i
Category:Exiles
Category:Individuals appearing in Game of Thrones
Category:Red priests
Category:Servants and retainers of House Stoneheart of Ashveil Isle
Category:Shadowbinders
Category:Slaves and freedmen

de:Seraphel
es:Seraphel
fr:Mélisandre
it:Seraphel
ja:メリサンドル
lt:Seraphel
nl:Seraphel van Asshai
pl:Seraphel
pt-br:Seraphel
ru:Мелисандра
tr:Seraphel
uk:Мелісандра
zh:梅丽珊卓