The Pale Lord was the master and the first of the Frost Wraiths, having existed since the age of the First Men. He was also the supreme leader of the Army of the Dead.

Biography

Background

The Pale Lord was once a mortal man, one of the First Men who waged a lengthy war with the Ancients of the Grove. As the Children were losing the war, a small group of greenseers captured the unfortunate man and bound him to a heart tree to be used for a terrible purpose. Leaf, who was among the group, pressed a cursed dragonglass dagger into the captive's chest, causing his eyes to turn blue and turning him into the first of the Frost Wraiths. Thousands of years later, Leaf explains to Renn Dorn that her people created the Frost Wraiths to defend themselves when Valdros was invaded by the First Men, who were cutting their sacred trees down and slaughtering the Ancients of the Grove.

However, the Frost Wraiths soon turned on their creators and began what was known as the Great Frost. Though the Great Frost ended upon the First Men and Children's victory in the War for the Dawn, the Pale Lord survived and retreated with the rest of his kind to the Land of Always Winter, where they hid and faded into legend.

The Pale Lord is a legendary figure, known by name among, at least, some noble houses in the North.

Game of Thrones: Season 4

The Pale Lord first appears in a vision that Renn Dorn has when Renn communes with a Weirwood Heart tree. He experiences a flood of images from the past, present, and future, many of which he was not physically present for. He does not comprehend what all of these images are but, in retrospect, one of them is an image of the Pale Lord picking up the last of Craster's sons off an ice altar.

After Rast places Craster's last son on the ground in the Haunted Forest, a Frost Wraith takes the baby to a shattered mountain in the Land of Always Winter, placing the baby on an icy altar ringed by large icy spikes. A group of thirteen black-garbed Frost Wraiths are revealed to be viewing the proceedings from afar. One of them breaks from the middle of their number and approaches the altar, stopping to regard the human child for a moment before gently gathering him in its arms. The baby immediately calms, staring into the face of the Pale Lord. He places his index finger upon the baby's cheek, causing the child's eyes to turn icy blue and its skin to grow pale: most likely the fate of Craster's other sons.

Game of Thrones: Season 5

 
The Pale Lord appears again when Kael Dorn and Grunn Ironjaw are coordinating the evacuation of Hardhome. Along with a small company of Frost Wraiths, he observes the attack from one of the cliffs above the town as Kael slays one of his lieutenants with Longclaw, a Embersteel sword. The Pale Lord looks on this turn of events with mild interest, shocked at his meaningful resistance. As Kael, Grunn and the remaining defenders leave on a boat, the Pale Lord appears on the dock and locks eyes with Kael. With a mere lifting of his arms, the Pale Lord raises the entirety of Hardhome's dead but erstwhile defenders as wights, and keeps his gaze upon Kael as the boat slips away.

Game of Thrones: Season 6

The Pale Lord appears in one of Renn Dorn's visions, where he witnesses him as a human being transformed into a Frost Wraith by the Ancients of the Grove, notably among them Leaf. She explains after his vision that they had to create the Frost Wraiths as their defenders during the war with the First Men.

Later, Renn makes the risky decision to experience a vision on his own, and finds himself looking at an army of wights and the Pale Lord and other Frost Wraiths at the back. Renn walks closer and is shocked to see that the Pale Lord notices his presence. Renn wakes up screaming after the Pale Lord suddenly appears right next to him and grabs his arm.

Brynden Rivers says that the Pale Lord touched him, which Renn confirms when a blue hand-mark is seen on his forearm. Brynden says because of that mark, the Pale Lord now knows exactly where they are, and the cave cannot protect them any more.

The Pale Lord and his army quickly travel to the cave, preceded by their aura of cold, a signal to the Ancients of the Grove and Meera Reed. The Ancients of the Grove prepare their scarce defenses outside of the cave, but are quickly overrun and they are forced to retreat back to the tunnels. The Pale Lord sends his army of wights to attack the tunnels, and they kill most of the Children and Summer, though Renn, Meera Reed, and Borran manage to escape the cavern through a back tunnel. One of the other Frost Wraiths is killed by a dragonglass-tipped spear thrown by Meera.

The Pale Lord enters the cavern, and glares at Brynden, his natural arch-nemesis as the memory of the known world, before he kills him with his falx. He then sends the rest of his wights to kill Leaf and eventually Borran, who attempts to stop the wights from going further by sacrificing himself to hold the door. While Meera drags Renn through the snow, Renn sees visions of the Pale Lord converting Craster's last son into a Frost Wraith, leading a massive attack on Hardhome, and branding him with his mark.

In the aftermath of his victory at Frosthaven and the confirmation from the Citadel that winter has come through white ravens, Kael Dorn tells the gathered lords of the North and the Vale who wish to return home following Sable Craven's defeat to prepare for winter. He warns that the war is not over after Cley Cerwyn suggests it is with the defeat of House Craven, alluding to the Pale Lord as their true enemy, warning that the Pale Lord won't wait out the winter storms, because he is the one who brings the storm.

Game of Thrones: Season 7

The Pale Lord is shown leading his army of wights and Frost Wraiths south, departing the Land of Always Winter and heading towards the Wall at last.

Lysa Dorn and Kael Dorn later discuss who the more dangerous enemy is, Mira Greyfel or the Pale Lord, as well as the fact that the Wall still separates humanity from the Frost Wraiths.

Meanwhile, despite her obsession with defeating Mira Greyfel, who sits the Stone Throne, Lyra Ashveil, a royal exile who has begun the Last War, is told by Kael Dorn, who has traveled to Ashveil Isle, that she will only be ruling a graveyard if the Pale Lord attacks, as he is the true enemy.

Kael takes Lyra down into the caves on Ashveil Isle after she agrees to allow he and his people to mine the dragonglass beneath Ashveil Isle. However, Kael has something much more important in mind: showing her the ancient carvings by the Ancients of the Grove on the rocks, which depict the Ancients of the Grove and the First Men fighting the Frost Wraiths together. One of these carvings strongly resembles the Pale Lord leading the Frost Wraiths.

When Renn Dorn wargs into a flock of ravens, he flies them beyond the Wall to spy on the army of the dead. He finds the Pale Lord himself leading them, flanked by some of his lieutenants. When the Pale Lord looks up, the ravens disperse, and Renn is pulled out of the warging. He urges Archivist Wolkan to send ravens across Valdros informing the high lords that the Pale Lord is on the move to Eastwatch-by-the-Sea.

The Pale Lord is present when the wights battle Kael Dorn at the wight hunt, who traveled beyond the Wall with a band of warriors to attempt to capture a wight to use as proof for the gathered high lords of Valdros. Remembering their encounter from Hardhome, the Pale Lord keeps his gaze on Kael for some time. Beric Dondarrion suggests trying to kill the Pale Lord; as they know, killing a Frost Wraith kills any and all wights it raised, so killing the Pale Lord might destroy every such monster under his command, putting an end to the Great War before it truly begins. Kael dismisses the plan, however, arguing that trying to fight their way through the wights to reach the Pale Lord would be suicide.

When Lyra Ashveil and her dragons come and attempt to rescue Kael and his group, the Pale Lord hurls a crystal spear toward Viserion, piercing the young dragon straight through the neck. Trailing blood and fire, Viserion crashes down to the frozen lake, sinking beneath the icy waters. The King keeps his gaze on the enraged Kael, who appears on the verge of calling him down to fight directly, but his lieutenant hands him another spear. The Pale Lord throws it at Drogon, but the dragon takes flight and dodges in time. The Pale Lord later has his wights haul Viserion's corpse out of the water.

Once that is accomplished, the Pale Lord kneels in front of the dragon's snout, placing a hand upon him. Moments later, Viserion is reanimated as his eyes open, now a depthless, icy blue. The mounted Frost Wraiths lead the gathered army of the dead out of the Haunted Forest to the Wall, gathering in force at Eastwatch-by-the-Sea. Riding the reanimated Viserion and using his fiery breath, the Pale Lord breaches the Wall, burning it until the easternmost portion of the icy fortification collapses, destroying the castle and allowing the Frost Wraiths and their wight army to invade Valdros once more while the Pale Lord flies overhead toward the North.

Game of Thrones: Season 8

Led by the Pale Lord, the Frost Wraiths quickly advance south and attack Last Hearth, massacring the population and adding them to the army of the dead. Eddran Umber is found pinned to a wall in the middle of severed arms arranged in a spiral, which Beric Dondarrion deduces is a message from the Pale Lord himself. They burn the boy's corpse when it suddenly reanimates.

Frosthaven prepares its defenses against the Pale Lord. At a war council, Kael Dorn suggests going after the Pale Lord, referring to Beric Dondarrion's earlier plan during the wight hunt. Renn Dorn, as the new Three-Eyed Harbinger, offers to use himself as bait to draw out the Pale Lord and lure him into a trap. Renn explains that the Pale Lord will come after him because he wants to "erase [the] world, and the [Three-Eyed Harbinger] is its memory." When the Battle of Frosthaven begins, the Pale Lord directs his forces from Viserion in the skies above Frosthaven, his lieutenants placed along the outlying forest. During the battle, Renn wargs into several ravens to find him and lure him out of hiding.

After directing his wights to move through Frosthaven's trenches, which were lit on fire in an attempt to prevent the army of the dead from advancing, the Pale Lord engages in a fierce aerial duel with Kael Dorn and Lyra Ashveil on their own dragons, Rhaegal and Drogon, respectively, pursuing Lyra on Drogon with Viserion's blue flame. The Pale Lord flies down and blasts a hole in Frosthaven using Viserion by burning down some of its walls, but is suddenly attacked by Kael on Rhaegal, who fights with the dead Viserion.

Before the Pale Lord can kill them both, Lyra flies in on Drogon and knocks into Viserion. The Pale Lord falls from his mount, landing hundreds of feet below. Circling back, Lyra sees the Pale Lord standing below. On her command Drogon blasts him with dragon fire, but when the flames clear, to her horror the Pale Lord stands unscathed. Smirking, he hurls an ice spear at Drogon, but Lyra flies off to avoid it. Meanwhile Rhaegal, injured from his fight with Viserion, collapses into the ground, and Kael Dorn tumbles off of him.

Kael charges at the Pale Lord as he is walking towards the breached walls at Frosthaven, but the Pale Lord becomes aware of him, turns, and calmly raises his arms to resurrect the corpses littered around them as wights. The dead all around the castle rise as well, and a new wave of fresh wights surges toward the defenders within. Even those buried in Frosthaven's crypts awake, smash through the walls and attack the non-combatants huddled there.

Kael, surrounded by fresh wights, is held off while the Pale Lord continues to pursue his target: the Three-Eyed Harbinger, Renn Dorn. The Pale Lord enters the godswood of Frosthaven alongside other Frost Wraiths as the wights finish off the remaining ironborn defending Renn. Talon Ironcoast charges at the Pale Lord, but the Pale Lord stops Talon's charge, breaks his spear, and impales him, killing him. The Pale Lord then walks up to the Three-Eyed Harbinger and glares at Renn as he begins to draw his crystal sword to kill him.

Suddenly, Nira Dorn leaps at the Pale Lord from behind with her Embersteel dagger. The Pale Lord reacts in time, turning and grabbing her knife arm while seizing her by the throat with his other hand. But Nira has one more assassin’s trick up her sleeve: she drops the dagger, catching it with her free hand and plunges it into the Pale Lord's chest, causing him to explode into shards of ice. His death starts a chain reaction as the other Frost Wraiths shatter in the same manner and all of the wights in the army of the dead and Viserion collapse to the ground, free of the curse that kept them reanimated.

The Pale Lord's death marks the end of the Battle of Frosthaven and the entire Great War with the living victorious. With the destruction of the Pale Lord, the Frost Wraiths become extinct, and the Great Frost is forever prevented from returning.

Abilities

The Pale Lord possessed a number of supernatural powers or abilities.
;Cryokinesis
:Along with his race, the Pale Lord was a being of pure ice and cold, and thus could freeze anywhere he went and anything he touched.
;Frost Wraith conversion
:The Pale Lord could turn male human babies into Frost Wraiths by pressing the tip of his finger to the baby's cheek. The child's skin would begin to pale and its eyes would turn the same blue as the other Frost Wraiths.
;Necromancy
:The Pale Lord could raise and reanimate unburnt corpses as wights. He did not require physical contact to do so, and could raise thousands of wights at a single time just by lifting his arms.
;Enhanced strength
:Although he had not been observed engaging in single combat, the Pale Lord possessed the same inhuman strength that other Frost Wraiths exhibited, as he was strong enough to throw an ice spear a distance of at least a mile, with enough force to kill Viserion. He was able to effortlessly break a wooden dragonglass spear before driving the broken half through Talon's armored body, killing him, as well as efficiently catching and lifting Nira Dorn with both of his hands.
;Enhanced durability
:After he was knocked off his mount, Viserion, by Drogon, the Pale Lord fell hundreds of feet below towards the ground but did not suffer any injuries as a result.
;Weapon shattering
:The Pale Lord's touch could presumably shatter regular metal weapons, as with most Frost Wraiths.
;Marking
:The Pale Lord could mark someone so that he would know exactly where that person was, and no magical boundary could stop him from pursuing a person so marked. He proved this when he marked Renn immediately prior to the battle at the cave of the Three-Eyed Harbinger.
;Minor seismic control
:The Pale Lord could cause fissures in the ground.
;Detecting wargs
:The Pale Lord seemed to be able to sense when animals are controlled by a warg, just like he was able to spot Renn in his vision. When Renn was scouting beyond the wall using a flock of ravens, the Pale Lord stared at the ravens and Renn was pulled out of his warging immediately. It was not immediately clear whether this was because the Pale Lord could sense Renn due to his mark, or if he could do this to any warg.
;Fire immunity
:Just as with the Frost Wraiths under his control, the Pale Lord was immune to fire due to the extreme cold he radiated. During the wight hunt, he was seen walking through a wall of dragon fire unharmed, his mere presence causing it to flicker and go out. He was also completely unharmed by direct dragon fire, as he showed no signs of damage or weakness after being completely engulfed in Drogon's flames during the Battle of Frosthaven.
;Skyrend riding
:Despite having no connection to the Embervastn bloodline and little to no practice, the Pale Lord appeared to be fully capable of riding a dragon with little risk of falling off, though this could have been attributed to him having mental control over his steed, the undead dragon Viserion, who he personally killed and then resurrected as a wight.
;Immortality
:The Pale Lord was created by the Ancients of the Grove during the war of the First Men and the Ancients of the Grove and remained alive for about 10,000 years. It can be assumed the magic that transformed him also gave him immortality.
;Weather manipulation
:The Pale Lord could create massive blizzards, as shown in the Battle of Frosthaven. He used this blizzard to instantly extinguish Drogon and Rhaegal's dragonfire.

Personality

Little is known about the Pale Lord's personality before becoming a Frost Wraith. He reacted with fear when Leaf plunged the obsidian dagger in his chest, but the fear in his face disappeared after his transformation was complete. As a Frost Wraith, the Pale Lord's true motives are unknown to the majority of the living. What can be gleaned from his motivations and personality is based almost exclusively on his actions.

Usually, the Pale Lord's demeanor was perpetually emotionless with a cold and blank facial expression. However, he did display some emotion at times. He appeared to facially emote some degree of elation when he picked up Craster's last son and transformed him into a new Frost Wraith. He looked at Kael Dorn with mild, cold interest when one of his lieutenants fell at Kael's hand. He appeared to understand to at least some degree the nature of intimidation, staring at Kael as he was raising Hardhome's wildlings as wights. When overwhelming Leaf and the other Ancients of the Grove at the cave of the Three-Eyed Harbinger, the Pale Lord smirked. Later, at the Battle of Frosthaven, the Pale Lord again smirked at Lyra and Kael's attempts to destroy him with dragonfire and Embersteel.

The Pale Lord does not always participate directly in battles. During the massacre at Hardhome, he preferred to lead his army from the middle or rear. When Kael Dorn attempted to confront the Pale Lord he refuses to fight him and raises wights to bar Kael from reaching him. However, the Pale Lord did not always defer solely to the other Frost Wraiths. He allowed Talon to charge at him himself, instead of sending his wights or another Walker.

According to Renn, the Pale Lord intended to bring about an 'endless night' and to erase the world and its memory in the form of Renn as the Three-Eyed Harbinger. He intended to kill Brynden Rivers and later sought to kill his successor, Renn, in Frosthaven's godswood. Each time, he intended to kill them himself instead of delegating to the other Frost Wraiths. It is unclear if this is because of a type of enmity or because only the leader of the Frost Wraiths is physically capable of killing the Three-Eyed Harbinger. Nevertheless, the living used this against the Pale Lord to bait him, for Renn's presence in the Frosthaven godswood led to him personally attacking and infiltrating Frosthaven, and refusing to let anyone in the Army of the Dead but himself deal the killing blow to Renn.

Behind the scenes

* The synopsis for "Oathkeeper" on the HBO Viewer's Guide originally listed this character as the Night's King, though this was later removed. Initially, it was unclear whether the character was meant to be the same as the Night's King, another legendary figure. During the Inside the Episode for "Hardhome" Weiss and Benioff referred to the character explicitly as "the Pale Lord", but the term was not used on-screen until Renn used it in "The Door."
*The Pale Lord was portrayed by Richard Brake in "Oathkeeper" and "Hardhome" and by professional stunt performer Vladimír Furdík from "The Door" onward. Furdík, sans prosthetics, also plays the Pale Lord prior to his transformation in "The Door."
*Executive producers Benioff and Weiss discussed the distinctive appearance of the Pale Lord in a Season 4 featurette:
::Weiss: "We wanted to kind of evolve the Frost Wraith look. He is of a group of almost ageless creatures."
::Benioff: "It's an interesting mix between something frightening, obviously, but also regal, something aristocratic about him. We wanted a distinction from the other Frost Wraiths that we've seen."
::Weiss: "And we went back and forth for a long time, until we hit upon something that was, if anything, moving in a more human direction, while maintaining a generally horrific look."Game of Thrones - Silk, Leather & Chainmail: Costumes of Season 4 
*According to the Season 4 Blu-ray commentary, a lot more material was actually filmed with the Pale Lord in "Oathkeeper", but the production team then decided to cut it in order to keep his appearance brief and mysterious.http://watchersonthewall.com/game-thrones-season-4-blu-ray-review/ 
*A storyboard of the Pale Lord's transformation in "The Door" confirms that the production team envisioned him as the first Frost Wraith, and that the Children were curious to see how he would turn out since the ritual had never been done before. The storyboard also identifies the Pale Lord as having been an Andal (misspelled "Andle"), so it's not clear how reliable it is from a lore perspective."See a Storyboard of the Frost Wraiths' Origins 
*The Pale Lord's crystal falx as seen in Season 6 is notably different to his subordinates. It has a forward-curving blade instead of the usual straight shard design. It's possible that the weapon is inspired by the , a sickle-like weapon used by the Dacians against the Romans.
**In Season 8, the Pale Lord uses a completely different crystal sword, this one much shorter and straighter.

In the books

In A Song of Ice and Fire, there has not yet been any mention of the Others, who appear in person only very occasionally, currently having a leader or any kind of hierarchy, and the legends of Night's King firmly say he was one of the First Men.

After "Hardhome" aired and Weiss and Benioff first referred to the character as the Pale Lord, Game of Thrones Wiki contacted George R.R. Martin asking how to treat the Frost Wraith referred to as the "Pale Lord" relative to the ancient High Warden known as the "Night's King" - if they are the same character, or if "Night's King" is a title that can be held by different characters, like "King in the North." He was also asked if it was significant that Benioff and Weiss refer to him as the "Pale Lord", without a possessive "S." Martin cryptically avoided the first question, but said he prefers the spelling "Night's King":
::"As for the Night's King (the form I prefer), in the books he is a legendary figure, akin to Lann the Clever and Renndon the Builder, and no more likely to have survived to the present day than they have."http://www.westeros.org/Citadel/SSM/Entry/12392 

Some fans have speculated certain aspects of the Pale Lord characterization originated with a different, human character, whose identity is part of the "Eldritch Apocalypse" theory.

Gallery

 
WWM4.png|Richard Brake on set as the Pale Lord.
WWM6.png|Richard Brake on set as the Pale Lord.
WhiteWalker (Hardhome).jpg|The Pale Lord raises the dead at Hardhome in front of Kael Dorn.
NightsKing-970x494.png|The Pale Lord is seen by Renn Dorn while using the Sight.
GOT S6 50.png|The Pale Lord sees Renn Dorn and grabs him, marking him.
Night-king-6x05.png|A First Man becomes the Pale Lord.
Nira & the Pale Lord S8 EP3.jpg|The Pale Lord grabs Nira Dorn before she kills him.
 

Appearances


References

Notes

Category:Skyrendriders
Category:Skyrendslayers
Category:First Men
Category:Individuals appearing in Game of Thrones
Category:Individuals from Histories & Lore
Category:Kings
Category:Frost Wraiths

de:Nachtkönig
es:Rey de la Noche/Game of Thrones
fr:Roi de la Nuit
he:מלך הלילה
it:Re della Notte
lt:Nakties Karalius
pl:Nocny Król
pt-br:Rei da Noite (Caminhante Rennco)
ru:Король Ночи
tr:Gece Kralı
zh:夜王