{{Character


Lord Petran Silvertongue, popularly called Silvertongue, was the Master of Coin on the Inner Council under King Harald Stoneheart and King Caryn Stoneheart. He was a skilled manipulator and used his ownership of brothels in Ironport to both acquire vast wealth and accrue intelligence on political rivals. Silvertongue's spy network is eclipsed only by that of his arch-rival Corvyn. In his quest for power, he orchestrated a huge conflict in Valdros via multiple conspiracies and assassinations, which effectively began the War of the Five Kings leading to widespread devastation and the destruction of several major houses.

After marrying Lady Lysa Arryn, widow of Lord Kael Arryn of the Vale, and her subsequent death at his hand, he became the Lord Protector of the Vale. Because of his relationship with her, Silvertongue was able to heavily influence Lysa's son Robin Arryn, the new Defender of the Vale. To further his goal of sitting on the Stone Throne, Silvertongue took Lysa Dorn under his wing in order to gain some influence within House Dorn, but his role in the deaths of Eddran Dorn, Kael Arryn, and Lysa Arryn was finally exposed, and he was executed for his crimes.

Biography

Background

Petran Silvertongue was the head of House Silvertongue and the lord of an extremely minor holding, so small it has neither name nor a maester, located in a small area within the Fingers, a coastal region in the northeastern shores of the Vale of Arryn.

House Silvertongue had very meager origins and no distinguished lineage: Petran's great-grandfather was a lowly sellsword from Silverhaven who came to the Vale at the invitation of House Corbray. Petran's grandfather was a poor hedge knight, who managed to earn a minor lordship of a few stony acres in the smallest peninsula of the Fingers.

Petran's father fought in the War of the Ninepenny Kings, the preemptive assault on the forces of Maelys Blackfyre, the last of the Blackfyre Pretenders, before they could attempt an invasion of Valdros. During the conflict, Petran's father served well under Lord Hoster Tully. Through their good relationship, Hoster agreed to foster his son Petran at Riverrun, a great honor for a lesser house.

Petran went to Riverrun when he was eight years old, carrying all he owned in a bundle. At Riverrun, he befriended Hoster's daughters Sera and Lysa. Their brother Edmure mockingly nicknamed Petran "Silvertongue", in reference to his small height at the time and the location of his minor landholdings. The nickname would stick with him throughout his life. Eventually, even Petran sarcastically embraced the nickname, because it showed how far he had risen, from an impoverished noble-born boy from an insignificant minor house in the "little Finger" peninsula of the Vale, to one of the most powerful officials at the royal court.

Petran became obsessed and in love with Sera, but she never returned his affections. Lysa was infatuated with Petran, but he only loved Sera. Eventually when she was betrothed to Renndon Dorn, heir to Frosthaven, Petran challenged him to a duel, thinking he could win through pluck and courage but he was promptly overpowered and nearly killed, though Sera begged Renndon to spare his life (an act which she deeply regretted years later). Embittered, Petran was cast out of Riverrun and returned to the Vale. During the course of Harald's Rebellion, however, Renndon was killed by the Mad King Aerys II Ashveil, so Sera married his younger brother Eddran Dorn, while to secure a political alliance Lysa was wed to Kael Arryn, ruler of the Vale. Manipulating Lysa's infatuation with himself, Petran ingratiated himself into Kael's services, first as a customs officer at Gulltown, where he increased the port's revenues tenfold. Seeing Silvertongue's financial acumen, Kael was easily convinced by Lysa to later bring Silvertongue to the royal court at Ironport, and make him Master of Coin on King Harald Stoneheart's Inner Council. Petran's blatant ambition often placed him at odds with the Master of Whisperers, Corvyn.

In charge of the crown's treasury, Silvertongue rapidly grew into a powerful player in royal politics and a master of court intrigues. Of an older mindset, few who did not know him suspected Silvertongue as a threat, seeing only that he was a man from a very minor House, with no distinguished lineage, significant landholdings, or armies. Instead, Silvertongue based his newfound power on money. Silvertongue is unscrupulous in his search for power and wealth: he has bought multiple brothels in the city. Particularly a high-class brothel catering to the nobles in the city, cynically noting that whores make a better investment than ships because they rarely sink. Silvertongue makes good use of his brothels to have his agents spy on and manipulate his clientele and owns one of the largest spy networks in Valdros, second only to Corvyn's. Silvertongue has been known to privately bribe lords who have unusual or violent sexual fetishes if they pay the right price; ranging from supplying lords with amputee prostitutes, to delivering young boys to pederasts, and even delivering prostitutes to be secretly murdered by his clients for thrill-kills.

Due to their past friendship as children, Sera continued to believe that Lord Silvertongue was a friend she could count on at court.

Game of Thrones: Season 1

Silvertongue greets Eddran upon his arrival in Ironport. They quickly catch up, and Silvertongue recalls his duel with Renndon Dorn, stating that Renndon had left a scar from Petran's navel to collarbone. At the first Inner Council meeting with Eddran as the Hand, Silvertongue reports that the realm is six million gold dragons in debt, half of it owed to House Greyfel. Sera Dorn and Ser Rodrik Cassel attempt to sneak into the city, but are spotted by one of Silvertongue's men. They are taken to meet Silvertongue at one of his brothels. Sera is angered by their treatment, but asks Silvertongue for aid. She is trying to identify the people who tried to have her son Renn Dorn killed. Silvertongue is able to answer this quickly: the elaborate dagger wielded by the assassin used to be his, but he lost it in a bet with Davan Greyfel.

Silvertongue fetches Eddran to meet his wife, but when Eddran realizes he was being brought to a brothel, he thinks Silvertongue is insulting him by saying his wife is a whore. Eddran throws Silvertongue up against a wall before Sera appears and Eddran becomes pacified. After hearing her news, he vows to find the truth and expose the Greyfels to Harald and Silvertongue agrees to be his ally in this, for the affection he once bore Sera as a youngster. Eddran correctly believes that Silvertongue is still in love with his wife.

Silvertongue attends a Inner Council meeting concerning discourse due to the visitors attracted by Harald's tourney for Eddran, where he is told that he must find expenses to strengthen the City Watch of Ironport.

Silvertongue meets with Eddran and suggests that he keep his investigation into Kael Arryn's death lower in profile, where he reveals that Pycelle has told him of Eddran's possession of The Lineages and Histories of the Great Houses of the Seven Domains. After pointing out a gardener as a spy of Mira Greyfel, an urchin boy as a little bird of Corvyn and a septa as one of his own, he gives Eddran some interesting intelligence: Kael Arryn's former squire has been knighted and will fight in the forthcoming Hand's tourney. He also advises him to investigate an armorer located in the city. Eddran decides that Silvertongue may be more trustworthy than he first thought, but Silvertongue discourages him from thinking that way.

Silvertongue sits next to Lysa Dorn during the tournament, and remarks that she and Caryn have had a lover's quarrel. When her sister, Nira, asks about how he got his moniker, he tells her of how his home, the Fingers, was combined with his small height as a child. Following the death of Ser Hugh at the hands of Gorran Stonehound, Silvertongue then tells Lysa that Gorran, the "Mountain That Rides", has a dark reputation: he pushed his little brother Korryn's face into a fire for taking and playing with a toy of his when they were young, burning him severely. Silvertongue recommends that Lysa not spread that story around.

Silvertongue loses a bet to Garren Stoneheart over the joust between Ser Doran Thornfield and Ser Gorran Stonehound. He makes it clear that he knows about Garren's sexual relationship with Doran, to Garren's discomfort. He then explains to Lysa that Doran had been crafty in his attack, to which Lysa defends Doran's honour. Petran rebuffs this by saying that gold provides exception.

Corvyn finds Silvertongue in the throne room staring at the Stone Throne, where he reveals that he would intend to execute all those who have ever mocked or looked down on him if he was King. Corvyn reveals that he knows about Silvertongue's assistance in Eddran's investigation of Kael Arryn's death and reminds Silvertongue of the consequences that may befall him should the Greyfels discover his involvement. In response, Silvertongue reveals that he already knows about Corvyn having met with both Eddran and Illyrio Mopatis, a Duskporthi magister representing House Ashveil. Their conversation is interrupted by Garren, who informs them that Harald will be joining them at their Inner Council meeting. They then both support the motion to have Lyra Ashveil and her unborn child assassinated before the Kolvari can invade Valdros; Petran in particular emphasises that the situation should be dealt with quickly, comparing the situation to unwanted sex.

Silvertongue later introduces Eddran to Mhaegen, a prostitute and mother of yet another of King Harald's bastard children. Outside the brothel, Eddran gets into a fight with Ser Edran Greyfel. Silvertongue flees, promising to return with the City Watch.

Silvertongue is stunned when Eddran orders that Gorran Stonehound be arrested and executed for his raids on the Riverlands and when he orders Voryn Greyfel to present himself at court to answer for his bannerman's crimes. Silvertongue reminds Eddran that Voryn is the richest man in Valdros and that it is gold that wins wars, not armies. Eddran disagrees, asking why Voryn is not the king if this is the case.

Silvertongue instructs the newly-arrived Ros and another prostitute, Armeca, on how to please their customers and make them happy. When they ask him to join them, he refuses, saying that he only ever had eyes for one woman. He tells them about his past, how he loved and fought a duel for a woman. He lost and subsequently realized that he could never beat those in power by honorable means, as they would never let him compete on equal terms and will defeat them with his intellect. When Ros asks him what he wants, he says, "Oh, everything." before excusing the two prostitutes.

Later, Eddran tells him the truth of Caryn's parentage and his plan to install Orin on the throne when Harald dies. Silvertongue suggests instead that they let Caryn rule but act as the powers behind the throne. If he does not mature into the king they want, they can expose his dirty secret and install Lord Garren instead. Eddran rejects the plan as treason and instead asks Silvertongue to win over the City Watch to their cause. Silvertongue agrees, but later the City Watch turns on Eddran's men and kills them, while Silvertongue holds a dagger to Eddran's throat, pointing out, "I did warn you not to trust me."

Lord Silvertongue asks the Queen to allow Lysa Dorn to prove her loyalty as he attends the girl’s audience with the Queen and the council. He defends Lysa during her testimony, suggesting that she is innocent of any wrong, much to the chagrin of Corvyn (who believes that Lysa's confession is the only way to free Eddran) and Pycelle (who is under threat from the Greyfels). Subsequently, Mira orders that Lysa write to her brother, Aldric, in order to settle the situation peacefully. He stands with the Inner Council as the details of Caryn’s reign are read out and Barristan Selmy’s position is ordered to be taken up by Edran Greyfel; a snide remark from Silvertongue at Selmy's expense causes the seasoned knight to draw his sword and toss it at the king's feet. He glances suspiciously at Corvyn as Lysa seeks pardon for her father's actions.

Silvertongue watches on as Eddran Dorn confesses at his trial and is executed.

Silvertongue discusses kingship with Corvyn, and they engage in banter revolving around the Master of Whisperers' lack of genitalia. They eventually acknowledge their mutual admiration and respect of one another, before being interrupted by Caryn and his entourage.

Game of Thrones: Season 2

The Archive announces the coming of winter and Silvertongue warns the Inner Council that they do not have enough food for a protracted winter lasting more than five years. Mira orders the city barred to refugees from the War of the Five Kings. Davan Greyfel arrives to take up his position as acting First Advisor to Mira's consternation.

Orin Stoneheart learns of Edran Greyfel's incestuous relationship with Mira in a letter sent by Eddran Dorn before his death, which was sent with Petran's knowledge. Orin composes his own missive and sends it to all the high lords of the Seven Domains asking them to declare their loyalty to him and telling them of Caryn's illegitimacy. Mira tasks Silvertongue with finding the missing Nira Dorn and needles him about his love for Sera Dorn.

He responds by referencing her incest, reminding her that with knowledge, comes power. Silvertongue receives a violent reprimand when Mira tells her men to cut Silvertongue's throat but then says she has changed her mind, in order to remind him of his place, and that being born into power can never match Petran's ambitiousness, threatening his life if does not locate Nira. King Caryn Stoneheart responds to the ensuing rumors by ordering a city wide massacre of his father's bastards. The City Watch storm into Silvertongue's brothel in search of one of Harald's illegitimate children - a baby girl named Barra. They rip Barra from her mother's arms and kill the child in front of Silvertongue's employees.

Silvertongue mocks a request from the Veil Guard for assistance combating wildling activity and reporting an attack by wights. Davan has Lord Janos Slynt exiled to the Wall for his part in the massacre. Silvertongue later has to reorganise a nobleman to whore with Armeca when Ros begins to cry during his time with her. She explains that she is traumatised with Barra's murder, giving her insomnia. In order to convince her that it is best for her to keep up her work, Silvertongue intimidates Ros with a story of a Lysene who did not bring him significant income due to her sadness, who he eventually sold to a violently perverted individual. He allows her to take the rest of the day off, but asks her to resume her work the following day.

Davan meets with Silvertongue and outlines a plan to wed Myrcella Stoneheart to Robin Arryn to secure the support of the Vale. He promises to make Silvertongue the Lord of Harenvast and Lord Paramount of the Trident in exchange for his assistance and swears him to secrecy. Pycelle is arrested for revealing that Davan plans to wed Myrcella into House Sundagger and Silvertongue realizes that he was involved in a ruse. He confronts Davan who apologizes and offers him another opportunity; to act as an envoy to Sera to propose a prisoner exchange.

Silvertongue reaches Sera at Garren Stoneheart's camp in the Stormlands. He faces a frosty reception from Garren but nevertheless offers to betray the Greyfels and open the gates of Ironport to Garren's army. He takes interest in Garren's new bride Lyanne Thornfield and lets Lyanne know that he is aware that it is a purely political marriage because of Garren's homosexuality.

He meets with Sera as planned and delivers Eddran's remains as a sign of good faith. She greets him with angry recriminations over his betrayal of Eddran and rejects his poorly timed advances. He delivers Davan's suggested exchange terms; Edran for Lysa and Nira Dorn. Silvertongue lies that the Greyfels have Nira in their custody.

Garren is killed in mysterious circumstances and Silvertongue then approaches the Thornfields with a new proposal of an alliance with Caryn. This will allow Lyanne Thornfield to remain a queen and provide Doran Thornfield vengeance on Orin. He leaves the camp with them for Thornhaven. Sera acts alone to free Edran on returning to Aldric's camp, just as Silvertongue suggested.

Silvertongue travels to Harenvast to propose an alliance between House Greyfel and House Thornfield to Lord Voryn Greyfel. When arrives at camp, his cupbearer, Nira Dorn, who Mira tasked Petran with tries to hide her face to prevent Silvertongue from identifying her. Silvertongue discusses the assassination of Garren, and the subsequent rallying of the noble Houses from the Stormlands under the banner of Orin Stoneheart. However, House Thornfield of the Reach has retreated its large army back to their capital at Thornhaven, and has not joined Orin. Silvertongue discusses with Voryn the possibility of forming an alliance between House Greyfel and House Thornfield.

Silvertongue is successful in negotiating with the Thornfields and the allied forces arrive in time to claim victory at the Battle of the Blackwater.

Silvertongue is elevated to Lord of Harenvast in reward for brokering the alliance. He jokes that now he must get started on producing some heirs. Hence, Lysa's betrothal to King Caryn is broken so that Caryn can marry Lyanne. Lysa is overjoyed at that she no longer has to marry Caryn but tries to look heartbroken.

Silvertongue warns Lysa that she isn't fooling anyone and that Caryn will not let her go despite setting her aside. He stresses that, if anything, she is in more danger than ever, as she still remains captive, and now has no protection from her egagement. Lord Petran tells her that she reminds him of Sera and offers to take her home to Frosthaven but she is reluctant to trust him.

Game of Thrones: Season 3

Silvertongue colludes with Lysa Dorn that he plans to smuggle her out of the city on his ship when he leaves on an upcoming mission. She displays an eagerness to leave as soon as possible. He suggests that when he next leaves the capital by sea, she might be able to stow away. Lysa advises him not to give her too many details since she is a terrible liar. Meanwhile, Ros, who seems to be acting as Silvertongue's aide, reminisces about the day Lysa was born, when all the bells in Frosthaven were rung in celebration. She asks Shae to look out for Lysa, particularly in regards to Silvertongue.

With his new position as Lord of Harenvast, Silvertongue's status is elevated considerably, enough for him to leave his position as Master of Coin to Davan, purchase a ship and prepare to sail to the Eyrie with a marriage proposal to the widowed Lysa Arryn. However, knowing full well that Lysa could end up being a more politically powerful wife than Lysa, he plans to take her on his ship with him. Ros, now secretly working for Corvyn, discovers his intentions and informs Corvyn who promptly convinces Lady Maren Thornfield to arrange a marriage between Lysa and Doran.

Mira asks Silvertongue to collect information on the Thornfields, explaining that she fears that the Thornfields do not have the Greyfels' best interests at heart, but her father won't listen. Therefore, she asks that Silvertongue use his spies to try to find out what they're up to, because he has a good working relationship with them after brokering the Greyfel-Thornfield alliance. He agrees, but Mira warns him that this had better produce more results than when she previously asked him to find Nira Dorn. Silvertongue orders one of his homosexual prostitutes, Olyvar, to act as Doran's squire and seduce him all the way to the bedroom. He does so and manages to get Doran to admit to the secret wedding plans. Olyvar relays this piece of information back to Silvertongue, who tests Lysa. When she declines her place on his ship, Silvertongue realizes Corvyn's plan and tips off Mira and Voryn.

A short time later, Silvertongue meets with Lysa, offering her a place on his ship that will take him from the capital to the Vale of Arryn. Lysa practices lying for a change, and tells him that they should wait until after Caryn's wedding, primarily because she fears for his safety if the plan fails (in actuality, she believes her staying in Ironport will result in a marriage to Doran). A master manipulator, Silvertongue is clearly suspicious of her motives, but doesn't press the matter for the moment. Instead he says he is touched by her concern for his safety, and insists that she call him "Petran."

Silvertongue deduces that it must have been Ros who betrayed him, so he gives her to King Caryn, who tortures and kills her with his crossbow. In the throne room, Silvertongue confronts Corvyn about his foiled plot. Corvyn responds by telling him that he "did what he did for the good of the realm" to prevent it spiraling into chaos but Silvertongue counters him by asserting that he views chaos as the perfect scenario to climb further up the social ladder. His ship then departs for the Vale of Arryn, much to Lysa's distress, who had just discovered her engagement to Davan Greyfel.

Game of Thrones: Season 4

After Caryn's death, Dontos Hollard delivers Lysa Dorn to Lord Silvertongue's ship. After Lysa climbs aboard, Dontos reminds Lord Silvertongue about his payment. Silvertongue snaps his fingers, and crossbowmen kill Dontos. Silvertongue takes off Lysa's necklace, which he made himself, and throws it overboard, landing on Dontos' body.

Still sailing, Lord Silvertongue approaches Lysa at her cabin and tells her that they are on their way to the Vale where she will be safe. Lysa accuses him of killing Caryn; he tries to deny it at first, but Lysa knows that he had something to do with the murder because getting her out of Ironport was part of the plan. He admits it, telling her about the poison in the necklace, and states that Caryn couldn't be trusted and had to be removed. Because Silvertongue has been away for a while, he would never be suspected, and the whole purpose of the murder was to confuse the Greyfels--which his new friend, Lady Maren, wanted very badly.

Silvertongue and Lysa, now pretending to be his niece Alayne, pass the Bloody Gate and make their ascent to the Eyrie, where they meet Lysa Arryn and her son, Lord Robin. After Lysa is acquainted with the two of them and is told that no one can know about her presence, Robin takes her to her chambers. Silvertongue is left alone with Lysa, who kisses him and tells him she wants to marry him immediately.

He is reluctant at first and wants to inform the Lords of the Vale about the ceremony, but Lysa says that they already had their wedding night long ago. She then asks him what wife would do for him the things she had done for him, including poisoning her husband's wine, thus killing him, and then writing a letter to her sister Sera claiming it had been the Greyfels who did it, all of this at Silvertongue's behest. He starts to kiss her before anyone can overhear her. Although Silvertongue states he will inform a septon the following day, Lysa then brings one into the hall to wed them immediately and says that she will scream loudly as her husband, Lord Silvertongue, is making love to her that night, even being able to her across the Narrow Sea. She keeps her promise, much to Lysa's annoyance.

The next day, after Lysa slaps Robin for ruining the snow castle of Frosthaven she made in the Eyrie's courtyard, Silvertongue approaches her and calms her down, stating that Robin should've been disciplined by his mother long ago and that he will deal with Lysa. When Lysa states she will never see Frosthaven again, he counters that a lot can happen between "now and never" and that she must demolish her old home if she wants to build one anew. Lysa insists to know why he killed Caryn.

He answers that he did it out of love for Lysa's mother. He adds that in a different world she might have been his child. He dismisses the notion and states she's more beautiful that Sera ever was. He kisses Lysa afterward. Later, Petran prevents Lysa from throwing Lysa out of the Moon Door after she saw the kiss. After, Lysa is more subdued, Petran tells her he has always loved only one woman, her sister. He then pushes Lysa out of the Moon Door.

Following Lysa's death, Petran Silvertongue is questioned by Lord Yohn Royce, Lady Anya Waynwood, and Ser Vance Corbray about Lysa's death, which he claims was suicide. The lords don't believe him, given Lysa's devotion to her son. They rebuff Silvertongue's explanations in favor of speaking with the only other witness: his "niece", Alayne. Silvertongue is noticeably concerned after they reveal that they will not allow him to speak to her prior to her testimony so they can hear the "unadulterated truth." However, after confirming that Silvertongue can stay for her testimony, Alayne reveals her true identity, the tale of her captivity and flight from Ironport. She then speaks of Lysa's mental instability, jealousy, and death, changing only a few details: saying Silvertongue only kissed her on the cheek and that Lysa did throw herself from the Moon Door. Lysa breaks down in tears and the lords are convinced, but while none of them are looking, she gives Silvertongue a stony, almost triumphant gaze.

Following the questioning, Petran admonishes the lords for hiding away in the Vale during the War of the Five Kings, questioning their loyalty because they refused Sera Dorn's plea for assistance in the conflict against the Greyfels. When asked who he thinks they should back, he responds that they should back "Robin Arryn, Lord of the Vale." When the lords scoff at his suggestion, claiming that Robin is just a sickly boy, Petran responds by declaring that "even sickly little boys can become powerful men," and that it is time for young Robin to leave the nest. The boy, he claims, needs to learn to ride a horse, to swing a sword, and to become the lord the Vale needs. He offers to take Lord Robin on a tour of the Vale in order for him to become acquainted with his domains, a request that the lords agree to.

Later, Silvertongue visits Lysa and asks why she lied on his behalf. Without looking up from the dress she is mending, Lysa explains that she has no idea what Royce, Corbray, and Waynwood would want from her if he were eliminated, but that she does know what it is he wants. Silvertongue seems impressed that she made such a calculating decision, but attempts to cast doubt on her certainty. Lysa doesn't take the bait.

Later on, Silvertongue and Robin stand in the High Hall, preparing to depart for their tour of the Vale. Robin expresses his uncertainty about leaving the Eyrie, echoing his mother's words that the outside world is a dangerous place where he could die. Petran calms his fears by stating that people die from everyday causes, and that instead of worrying about his inevitable death to spend time focusing on his life, which lays before him. At that moment, a raven-haired Lysa appears at the top of the stairs in a feathered black dress with a plunging neckline. Petran stares at her intently, clearly intrigued and pleased by her recent transformation, and she returns his smile knowingly.

Game of Thrones: Season 5

Silvertongue attends a sword jousting session for Lord Robin at Runestone, along with Alayne and Yohn Royce. Royce remarks on Robin's weak skills at swordsmanship, but Petran insists his name is all that matters, not his skill. A maester delivers him a raven message, which he reads discreetly. Silvertongue leaves Robin in the care of Lord Royce, for further training. On the carriage ride, he is questioned by Lysa as to why they are heading west when Lord Royce was told they would be traveling to the Fingers, unsure of his source of distrust. Petran promises her that they are going somewhere far away, where Lysa will be safe from Queen Mira.

While at an inn, Petran and Lysa are confronted by Briana Stoneguard, who previously swore an oath to Sera Dorn to keep the Dorn girls safe. Petran reminds Briana that she swore an oath to Garren Stoneheart and Sera Dorn, both of whom are now dead, in order to stop Lysa from trusting her. Petran attempts to "persuade" Briana to rest with them, but Briana and her squire, Patrin Blade, escape, and discreetly continue to follow Petran and his party.

However, when the party arrives at the ruins of Moat Cailin, Lysa realizes that Petran intends to marry her to Sable Craven, the son of Lord Aldric Craven, who betrayed and murdered her brother and mother. Despite Lysa's reluctance to marry into another family that harmed hers, Petran persuades her to go along with the plan, citing it as a chance to avenge her family. They subsequently ride through Moat Cailin, and arrive at Frosthaven.

Later, Petran speaks with Sable and subtly warns him not to inflict any harm on Lysa. He also speaks with Aldric regarding the validity of Lysa's marriage to Davan Greyfel. Petran insists that since Davan never slept with Lysa, their marriage is invalid. Aldric declares that he is only interested in Lysa's name, not her virtue (after Silvertongue suggests he have Lysa inspected) and voices his doubts as to whose side Petran is truly on, having essentially betrayed the Greyfels by taking Lysa away from them and returning her to the North to marry into a family that the Greyfels are no longer backing, though Petran counters by citing Aldric's betrayal of the Dorns and Tullys. Aldric then presents a letter for Petran from Mira which arrived from the Eyrie, and demands to read Petran's reply before it is sent off.

Later on, Petran finds Lysa in the crypts of Frosthaven paying her respects to her deceased family members. Petran recalls about how Rhaegar Ashveil kidnapped Lysa's aunt, Kira, which started Harald Stoneheart's rebellion against the Ashveil family. Petran then tells Lysa that he has to return to Ironport on Mira's request. Lysa expresses unease about being left alone in Frosthaven, but Petran tells her not to worry, since Orin Stoneheart is garrisoned at Castle Black and will most likely make another try for the Stone Throne, which will require him to retake Frosthaven, destroy the Cravens and win the Northern Lords to his side, and out of respect for Eddran Dorn's support of his claim, Orin will rescue Lysa and name her the new Warden of the North, and if Orin is killed or does not even come, then Petran suggests Lysa can destroy the Cravens from within. He kisses her on the lips again and departs.

Silvertongue returns to Ironport to find the city under the rule of the newly-reestablished Creed Militant. Lancel Greyfel, a member of the religious cult known as the Sparrows, warns him that his days as a brothel owner in the capital are over; Silvertongue flippantly dismisses the warning and informs Lancel he is in the capital to meet Mira, obliging the Sparrows to let him pass. At his meeting with Mira, after questioning her wisdom of letting the Creed Militant reform and alienating House Thornfield with the formers arrest of Ser Doran, Silvertongue informs her of the Cravens' plans to marry Lysa to Sable. Angered at the Cravens' betrayal, Mira agrees with Silvertongue's plans to lead an army of Vale knights to Frosthaven to reclaim the North for the Greyfels, as the warriors from the Eyrie are trained to fight in winter (the weather is starting to turn at this point), but only once the Cravens and Orin Stoneheart have battled over the North and weakened both armies. In exchange, Silvertongue asks to be appointed as the new Warden of the North once Frosthaven is taken and both the Cravens and Orin are defeated. Mira agrees and tells him to return that night to have the King sign a royal decree promoting him.

Silvertongue later stands in his ruined brothel with a look of regret. He is approached by Maren Thornfield, having sent her a letter to speak with him. As they speak, Maren mentions how her grandchildren, Lyanne and Doran, have been arrested due to Mira's machinations and demands his help by threatening that if anything happens to her or if House Thornfield goes down, she will reveal his involvement in Caryn's murder, which will certainly lead to his execution; she also threatens to have her men murder him should any harm befall her. Outmaneuvered, Silvertongue reveals that Mira summoned him to Ironport for "a piece of information he had", his prostitute Olyvar, and he tells Maren that he will give her the same thing he gave Mira: a handsome young man — implied, in this instance, to be Lancel. Maren subsequently forces Lancel to reveal the adulterous affair he had with Mira to the High Sparrow, who has her arrested.

Game of Thrones: Season 6

Silvertongue returns to Runestone and greets Robin Arryn and Yohn Royce. Yohn quickly voices his suspicion of Silvertongue's involvement in Lysa's marriage to Sable Craven since Silvertongue had told Yohn that Lysa was going to the Fingers with him. With the intention of manipulating Robin, Silvertongue responds by falsely claiming the Cravens ambushed Lysa and Silvertongue on the way to the Fingers and insinuates that Yohn leaked the information to the Cravens. Robin suggests having Yohn thrown through the Moon Door for this false treason but asks for Silvertongue's advice on what to do with Yohn. Silvertongue responds that if Yohn can ensure his loyalty to Robin Arryn, which Yohn quickly gives, that Yohn should be given a final chance. Silvertongue then immediately follows-up and tells Robin that he has learned that Lysa has fled Frosthaven and will likely head to her half-brother High Warden Kael Dorn at Castle Black for protection, though the Cravens will pursue her. Robin responds that since Lysa is his cousin, he should help her. Silvertongue takes his cue and orders Yohn to gather the knights of the Vale to rescue Lysa from the Cravens. This brings an end to the neutrality of House Skypeak, which until then had steered clear of the War of the Five Kings.

Later, Silvertongue sends a letter to Lysa at Castle Black asking to meet in Mole's Town. Lysa travels to Mole's Town with Briana and confronts Silvertongue about her marriage to Sable, coldly asking if he knew the truth about Sable's sadistic side all along or if he was unaware and therefore, just stupid. Silvertongue responds that he made a mistake "trusting a stranger" and apologizes profusely, horrified at what Sable did, but has rallied the knights of the Vale to her cause and that the army is encamped at Moat Cailin. Lysa refuses his offer, saying that Silvertongue cannot help her - that he cannot even help himself if she orders Briana to strike him down. She tells him that she already has her brother Kael's help and they will rally other Northern houses to their cause. She finishes by warning him never to speak to her again. Silvertongue, as he prepares to leave, tells Lysa of her great-uncle Brynden Tully's success in recapturing Riverrun and suggests reaching out to him for support. Before he leaves, he reminds Lysa of Kael's bastardy.

When failing to rally enough houses to their side, Lysa secretly writes Silvertongue to take him up on the offer she previously rejected. Silvertongue arrives with the Vale Knights of House Skypeak just when the Dorn force is about to be massacred in the Battle of the Bastards, and the Vale forces easily wipe out what remains of the Craven army. Silvertongue is present when Wun Wun smashes down the door to Frosthaven and witnesses Kael defeat Sable in combat. House Dorn is subsequently restored as Lords of Frosthaven and Sable is executed.

In the battle's aftermath, Silvertongue approaches Lysa in the Godswood and finally admits that his goal is to sit on the Stone Throne with Lysa as his queen. Despite Silvertongue having declared for House Dorn, Lysa refuses to trust him, due to Silvertongue's tendency to betray those he declares for his own well-being. Upon Lysa's refusal of him, Silvertongue attempts to convince Lysa that she should rule the North, calling Kael a "motherless bastard." Silvertongue is later present at the meeting where Kael is proclaimed the new King in the North by the Northern lords along with the Vale lords. Silvertongue is the only one who does not cheer, and instead stares at Lysa.

Game of Thrones: Season 7

Petran watches disapprovingly as Kael hands the castles of Last Hearth and Karhold back over to Eddran Umber and Alys Karstark, despite their parents' role in the Battle of the Bastards.

He later confronts Lysa to see if she is truly "safe" and "happy." She tells him she is safe in Frosthaven, but he continues to question her in regards to her happiness. Lysa dismisses him. Just before he tries to resume speaking, Lysa dismisses Petran again as Briana arrives.

In the Great Hall, Petran watches as Kael discusses accepting the deal to meet with Lyra Ashveil to the other lords, citing the need for Frostglass to forge weapons to kill Frost Wraiths after receiving a raven from Beron Ashmore. Petran smirks as Kael places his half-sister Lysa in charge of the North while he is gone. In Frosthaven's crypts, Petran finds Kael visiting his father's tomb and claims to Kael that he only wants to help him. Kael does not buy it and angrily orders Silvertongue out of the crypt, bluntly stating he has nothing to say to the man. Slightly offended, Silvertongue retorts that Kael might show him a little gratitude for saving him from death at the hands of Sable Craven. He also admits his love for Lysa - just as he "loved her mother." Disgusted, Kael shoves Petran against the wall and strangles him, angrily promising Silvertongue that he will kill him if he ever touches Lysa, and angrily leaves the crypts.

Lysa and Petran learn from Archivist Wolkan that they have about 4,000 bushels of wheat. Lysa realizes that they don't have enough food for the coming winter. She advocates building granaries to stockpile for a famine and orders leather to be placed on the armoury. While walking, Silvertongue and Lysa talk about the threat of Mira. Petran urges her to fight every battle and to look for threats in every corner. They are then interupted by a guard who tells Lady Dorn that she has received a visitor at the gates, who turns out to be her younger brother Renn Dorn.

Petran later meets with the recently returned Renn and gives him the Embersteel dagger that was used to make an attempt on his life from the catspaw. Unimpressed and uninterested, Renn simply asks if he knows who had the dagger before the assassin to which Petran responds that same question started the War of the Five Kings. Petran then asks Renn how he survived beyond the Wall only to return to such chaos. Renn replies, "Chaos is a ladder," the very thing Petran said to Corvyn during his rise in power after allowing Caryn Stoneheart to kill Ros. Slightly unnerved, Petran then exits upon the entrance of Meera Reed, addressing Renn as "Lord Dorn." However, Renn corrects Silvertongue, explaining that he cannot be a lord because he is now the three-eyed-raven.

Petran watches from the battlements as Nira Dorn returns to Frosthaven and later when she spars with Briana. However, after the practice, Nira looks up at Petran with a disapproving and untrustworthy look. Yet again hatching another cunning plan, Petran bows from the high walls and walks away from Nira's view.

After trying and failing to manipulate Renn, Petran formulates a plan to separate the Dorn sisters, starting with Nira. Nira herself becomes increasingly suspicious of Petran and begins shadowing him in order to figure out his plan. He engages in conversation with a common girl, before giving her money for her information. Nira follows Petran around Frosthaven and watches him from the battlements as he eerily converses with Yohn Royce and Robett Glover. Petran then receives Archivist Luwin's copy of Lysa's letter to Aldric, asking him to surrender to Caryn, from Wolkan, who assures him that there is no other copy in Frosthaven. Nira retrieves the letter after investigating his chambers. However, Petran watches from the shadows as Nira exits, showing that he knew all along of her spying on him, and was counting on her to find the letter. Petran smiles, hoping this will turn the hot-tempered Nira against her sister.

After Nira confronts Lysa over the letter, Lysa becomes worried that Nira could turn the Northerners against her or even worse, harm her in some way and voices her concerns to Petran. Petran reminds her that Briana swore an oath to Sera that she would watch over both Dorn sisters and should protect her from Nira if the latter was to try and murder Lysa.

Following this, Lysa receives a letter from Kael, stating his pledge to Lyra Ashveil. Petran then talks of rumors of the Skyrend Queen's beauty, making Lysa believe that Kael wishes to marry her. Petran is also told that Nira had previously worked as a Faceless Man in Silverhaven, to which he plays on the idea of Nira being a ruthless assassin. Petran then tells Lysa that he always imagines the worst possible ideas a person has in their mind. He then implants the idea that Nira has come to Frosthaven after discovering the letter and her marriages to Davan and Sable, after which she would become Lady of Frosthaven.

However, still unsure of Petran's intentions, Lysa visits Renn. From this, she learns of the Sight, in which Renn proves Petran's ultimate guilt in the War of the Five Kings. This proves everything Petran has done to gain power: his murder of Kael Arryn, his attempt to kill Renn, his betrayal of Eddran and his attempt to turn Nira and Lysa against each other.http://viewers-guide.hbo.com/game-of-thrones/season-7/episode-7/people/100/petyr-littlefinger-baelish 

When Nira is seemingly brought to face trial for murder and treason, Lysa catches Petran off guard when she asks how he wishes to answer for his crimes. She then reveals to all the Northern and Vale lords gathered there, including Yohn Royce (whom she previously lied to), that Petran did, in fact, kill her aunt Lysa. He also planned the assassination of Kael Arryn and conspired with the Greyfels to imprison Eddran so they could frame him for treason.

When Silvertongue tries to deny the charges, Renn reminds Petran that he held a knife to Eddran's throat and repeats what Petran told Eddran: "I did warn you not to trust me," at which the stunned Petran fails to muster any type of defense. Nira, holding the Embersteel dagger that was given to the catspaw to kill Renn, who had himself been gifted the dagger by Petran in an attempt of manipulating him, who passed it along to Nira due to its uselessness is his hands, reminds him that he told their mother the weapon belonged to Davan, but deduces it was Petran's all along.

Seeing how things are going, Petran steps closer to the table, telling Lysa that he has known her since she was a girl and all he did was to protect her; Lysa sarcastically replies "Protected me? By selling me to the Cravens?." He then asks Lysa if they can speak alone and asks if he can or deserves to defend himself, before he tries to order Yohn Royce as Lord Protector to escort him back to the Eyrie, but Royce scornfully refuses. With no one to turn to for aid, Petran falls to his knees and begs for his life, claiming that he had loved Sera since he was a boy, but Lysa replies he still betrayed her.

Petran insists he loves Lysa, but she replies he betrayed her too. After Lysa thanks him for the many lessons he gave her and that she will never forget, sharing an affirmative look as Nira proceed to kill him. As he pleads for his life Nira slits his throat with the dagger on behalf of the Dorn siblings. Petran collapses to the floor and dies in a pool of his own blood watched by everyone present. Later on, Lysa and Nira discuss the execution, Lysa tells Nira, "In his own horrible way, I believe he [Petran] loved me."

With Petran Silvertongue dead, Valdros is finally free from his deception; all who were killed in the War of the Five Kings because of his actions are finally avenged.

Personality

Silvertongue is a cunning, Machiavellian, unpredictable, deceitful, and ruthless opportunist. He is at times capable of putting on a seemingly friendly face with a friendly smile - but his eyes don't smile when his mouth does. Unlike in the books, where the exact inner motivations that drive Silvertongue are unclear, as are his ultimate goals, in the show he has made clear in several occasions that the Stone Throne is what he desires. Behind his smiles and forced mild manners, Silvertongue is shrewd and calculating, willing to dispose of anyone, even those who trust him, as he would an old coat. He is an extremely intelligent man, not only a genius at financial matters but at controlling those around him. As Corvyn observed, he is a grasper from a minor House, with a very great skill at befriending and ultimately manipulating powerful people.

In truth, underneath Silvertongue's people-mask, he is a cold sociopath who hungers for power over others basically for its own sake. Curiously, even seemingly plausible goals such as "revenge against the Dorns and Tullys" - which at times is what he tells himself he is doing - are really only excuses and rationalizations for his utter ambition to control everything around him - he has stated more than once that he wants "everything." 

Silvertongue enjoys exerting power over other people. He is willing to use other people, often vulnerable and weak people (i.e., prostitutes), purely for his own gain, while at the same time using the weaknesses of his enemies as leverage; sometimes he doesn't even use people for any actual purpose, but simply because he enjoys destroying them like a man swatting a fly.

Despite his ingenious planning and manipulation, Silvertongue is not incapable of making mistakes, nor is he above overplaying his hand if he is convinced of the superiority of his position.

Quotes

Spoken by Petran

Spoken about Petran

Family

In the books

In A Song of Ice and Fire, Petran Silvertongue's father made the acquaintance of Lord Hoster Tully during the War of the Ninepenny Kings, where they fought together. Nothing is known about Petran's mother, except that her name was Alayne.

"Silvertongue" is a nickname given to Petran by Edmure Tully during their time at Riverrun together. It is a reference to the fact that Petran Silvertongue's holdings are on the smallest of the Fingers, the numerous headlands and peninsulas protruding into the Narrow Sea on the Vale's east coast, and to the fact that he has been slight and short for his age.

On the basis of the above acquaintance, Petran was sent to foster at Riverrun, where he met Hoster's own daughters, Sera and Lysa. Lysa developed a crush on Petran, but Petran preferred the older, more unobtainable Sera. When Sera was betrothed to Renndon Dorn of Frosthaven Petran challenged Renndon to a duel of honor for Sera's hand, but was soundly defeated. After he had recovered sufficiently from his injures, Lord Hoster had Petran returned home.

According to Sera, Petran sent her a letter after Renndon's murder by the Mad King (the contents of the letter are not revealed - perhaps he hoped she would agree to marry him), but she burned it unopened, because she knew Eddran would marry her in his brother's place. 

Petran was later appointed as a customs official in Gulltown, the main city of the Vale. His extreme success in raising funds, bringing in three times as much as any of the king’s other collectors, led Lord Kael Arryn, the First Advisor, to appoint him to the Inner Council as Master of Coin, a task at which Petran has excelled: he has made the crown's revenues ten times what they have been under his beleaguered predecessor (though the crown's debts have grown vast as well).

Silvertongue did not simply collect gold and keep it; instead, he paid the king’s debts in promises, and put the king’s gold to work. He bought wagons, shops, ships, houses; he bought grain when it was plentiful and sold bread when it was scarce. In the process, he moved his own men into key positions: harbormasters, tax farmers, customs sergeants, wool factors, toll collectors, pursers, wine factors, etc. No one has ever questioned those appointments, since Silvertongue was no threat to anyone: a clever, friendly person, always able to find whatever gold the king or his Hand required, and yet of such undistinguished birth, he was not a man to fear. He had no banners to call, no army of retainers, no great stronghold, no holdings to speak of, no prospects of a great marriage.

Unlike in the TV series, Davan learns from Sera that it was Silvertongue who told her the dagger found on the catspaw sent to kill Renn belonged to Davan. Silvertongue explained that it had previously belonged to him until he lost it in a wager with Davan when Edran was unhorsed by Doran Thornfield. Davan states that this cannot be true because he never bets against Edran. Sera asks why Petran would lie to her, to which Davan retorts: "why does a bear shit in the woods? Because it is in his nature." Sera realizes too late that Silvertongue lied to her, when Edran independently verifies Davan's account and had no reason to lie having just confessed to pushing Renn from the window. Sera does not have a chance to confront Silvertongue about his lie; Davan does, but he does not settle his score with Silvertongue, even though he suffered a lot and almost got killed three times due to that lie (Davan pragmatically recognizes Silvertongue is too valuable for his talents as Master of Coin and has too many of his own agents in positions of power at court to eliminate him for the sake of vengeance at the outbreak of the War of the Five Kings, though Davan's inner monologue does note that once Silvertongue's usefulness has passed and Davan can replace Silvertongue's agents with people loyal to him, he'll gladly revenge himself on Silvertongue).

Unlike in the show, Silvertongue does not go to Harenvast, neither before nor after he becomes its lord. He explains to Lysa it is because of the curse, which caused the destruction of every house that held Harenvast, and the death of every individual who served as its castellan: Lady Whent, Voryn, Amory Lorch, Vargo Hoat, the Mountain and Polliver.

Following the Massacre in the Red Keep, Jeyne Poole is taken by force to one of Silvertongue's brothels, where she is viciously molested and beaten. In the third novel, Silvertongue comes up with the idea to wed her, disguised as Nira Dorn, to Sable Craven. Other than that, he has no contact with the Cravens. 

It is implied in the novels that Silvertongue lusts after Lysa, perhaps because she looks so much like her mother, who is lost to him forever. In the fourth novel he kisses Lysa passionately several times, and once touches her breasts; in the fifth novel, Mira recalls that he offered to wed Lysa, but was denied because he was much too lowborn. Nevertheless, Silvertongue does not let his personal desires 
interfere with his plans.

Unlike in the show, Silvertongue and Lysa are married at the Fingers, because Lysa insists that they do that without delay. Silvertongue does not like the idea and tries to persuade Lysa to hold the wedding in public, at the Eyrie and in presence of Lysa's whole court (in order to make the Vale lords acknowledge his new position), but Lysa is too stubborn. 

It is unknown whether Silvertongue has planned in advance to dispose of Lysa and seized the opportunity to do that, or it was a spontaneous decision. Either way, the timing of the murder (not the murder itself) has posed him a problem: he has not been married to Lysa long enough to establish his position as the Lord Protector of the Vale in the eyes of the local lords.

Soon afterward, Lord Nestor Royce comes to inquire about Lysa's death and is satisfied by Silvertongue's smooth lies that it was Marillion. At that occasion, Lysa shivers with fear, especially when Silvertongue says brazenly "it was I who killed her" (as if talking metaphorically), but Silvertongue gets away with the murder. 

Lord Yohn Royce and other lords of the Vale (known as "Lords Declarant"), who scornfully consider Silvertongue an outsider upstart, intend to oust him from the Vale and assume the rearing and training of Harald (Robin Arryn's name in the novels). They inform Mira about their intentions. Silvertongue can request military assistance from Mira but does not: he sends her a letter, asking for some old tapestries and barely mentions the lords who oppose him. Mira thinks it over and answers the lords of the Vale that the crown is content with whatever dispositions they may make for the governance of the Vale during Harald Arryn's minority, providing that no harm happens to Silvertongue.

Yohn Royce and five of the most powerful lords of the Vale come to the Eyrie, demanding that Silvertongue leave the Vale and give them custody over Harald. Silvertongue manipulates them into giving him a trial period of one year on his wardship over Harald. Later, he explains to Lysa that in one year, five of those lords either will die or be bribed by him. Lord Royce is the only serious obstacle, but so long as he stands alone - he is not so much a threat.

Silvertongue does not leave the Vale. Instead, he spends his time making contacts and attempting to win over lords of the Vale, the neutral ones and those who oppose him. So far, he has managed to draw three of the six Lords Declarant to his side: Symond Templeton, Benedar Belmore and Anya Waynwood. 

Silvertongue explains his plan to Lysa: after Harald dies (his health is so poor that he will probably die within a few years), she will wed his heir Ser Harrold Hardyng. Lysa reminds Silvertongue she is married and he answers "The dwarf wed Eddran Dorn's daughter, not mine. Be that as it may. This is only a betrothal. The marriage must needs wait until Mira is done and Lysa's safely widowed." At the wedding, Lysa will reveal her true identity; every knight in the Vale will pledge his sword to win back her birthright and that way she will take over both the Vale and the North.

Silvertongue is still alive by the point the books reached.

Whereas in the series Silvertongue's goals are more transparent (sitting on the Stone Throne), this is not the case of the novels. As Silvertongue is only seen through the POV of other characters (Eddran, Sera, Lysa, Davan), his ultimate objective remains a mystery. Likewise, his rivalry with Corvyn was developed for the show.

According to the TV series official pronunciation guide developed for the cast and crew, "Petran Silvertongue" is pronounced "PEE-ter BAY-lish", i.e. like the normal given name "Peter."

Gallery

 
Eddran and Petran 1x04.png|Silvertongue advises Eddran on politics in Ironport in "Cripples, Bastards, and Broken Things."
Inner Council.png|Silvertongue attends a Inner Council meeting in "Cripples, Bastards, and Broken Things."
Silvertongue_and_Eddran_1x03.jpg|Eddran threatening Petran in "Lord Snow."
Mira_Little_Finger_Season2.jpg|Mira asks Silvertongue to locate Nira Dorn in Season 2.
Silvertongue Corvyn the climb.jpg|Silvertongue and Corvyn speak in "The Climb."
Petran vs Renndon.png
Petran and Corvyn 1x05.png
Eddran and Petran 1x07.png|"I did warn you not to trust me."
Petran Silvertongue and Lysa Arryn 4x07.jpg|Petran Silvertongue and Lysa Arryn in "Mockingbird"
GOT S6 28.png
Petran_littlefinger_s6_The_Door.jpg|Petran meets with Lysa in "The Door."
 

Appearances

References

Notes

External links


Category:Bannermen of House Skypeak
Category:Bannermen of House Dorn
Category:Individuals appearing in Game of Thrones
Category:Individuals narrating Game of Thrones: Conquest & Rebellion: An Animated History of the Seven Domains
Category:Individuals narrating Histories & Lore
Category:Lord Protectors
Category:Lords of Harenvast
Category:Masters of Coin
Petran Silvertongue
Category:Regents
Category:Servants and retainers of House Stoneheart of Ironport
Category:Servants and retainers of House Riverstone
Category:Spies
Category:Valemen
Category:Wards

de:Petran Silvertongue
es:Petran Silvertongue/Game of Thrones
fr:Petran Silvertongue
it:Petran Silvertongue
ja:ピーター・ベイリッシュ
nl:Petran Silvertongue
pl:Petran Silvertongue
pt-br:Petran Silvertongue
ro:Petran Silvertongue (serial)
ru:Петир Бейлиш
tr:Petran Silvertongue
uk:Петір Бейліш
zh:培提尔·贝里席