{{Character


Lord Sable Craven, born Sable Snow, was the legitimized bastard son of Aldric Craven, Lord of the Dreadfort, and the unidentified wife of a miller.

During the War of the Five Kings, Sable is initially loyal to King in the North Aldric Dorn, retaking Frosthaven from Talon Ironcoast on his orders but at the same time sacking the castle as part of his father's scheme to betray House Dorn. Following the successful capture of Frosthaven from the Ironborn, Sable holds Talon captive and utilizes extreme torture to break him into loyal submission; renaming him "Reek." Following Aldric's murder and the decimation of the Dorn-loyal northern army at the Red Wedding, he follows his father in pledging allegiance to House Greyfel and is legitimized as Sable Craven. Through an arrangement orchestrated by Petran Silvertongue, Sable is wed to Lysa Dorn, who escapes from Frosthaven along with Talon. Their escape drives Sable to murder his entire family on threat of being disinherited, he then becomes the new Warden of the North and Lord of Frosthaven, replacing his father. Sable's rule over the North, however, comes to an end when Kael Dorn retakes Frosthaven with army of Free Clans and Dorn loyalists. Sable is subsequently executed for his crimes, rendering House Craven extinct and restoring House Dorn as the ruling family of the North.

Biography

Background

Sable Snow is Lord Aldric Craven's bastard son and the product of rape. Years ago, Aldric discovered that a miller had wed without his permission. He had the miller hanged and violently raped his wife under the tree where the miller was hung. Sable was born shortly afterwards, and his mother brought him to the Dreadfort, his father's castle, for Aldric to acknowledge as his son. Aldric very nearly killed Sable and almost had his mother whipped, but relented upon realizing that the child was indeed his.

Sable is Aldric's only child, as well as the only possible heir to House Craven until the birth of a child by Aldric's new wife, Fat Walda Frey. He stays behind as castellan of the Dreadfort when his father left for the south to fight in the War of the Five Kings.

Sable keeps a pack of dogs, which he employs for hunting. He is also in a relationship with the kennelmaster's daughter, Myranda; he claims that he planned to marry her before his father ultimately had him legitimized, but it is a questionable statement.

Game of Thrones: Season 2

After Frosthaven is seized by Talon Ironcoast for the Ironborn, Sable is dispatched by his father Aldric Craven to re-take it in the name of King Aldric Dorn. Sable's forces besiege the castle and he infuriates Talon by blowing a horn all through the night. The following morning, Talon rallies his men to defend the castle, but he is betrayed and knocked out cold by his men, who accept Aldric Dorn's offer of mercy for the Ironborn garrison if they surrender and hand over Talon. However, the castle is sacked by Sable afterwards and instead of letting the Ironborn walk free, he flays them alive.

Game of Thrones: Season 3

Following the Sack of Frosthaven, Sable and his men take Talon to the Dreadfort, where the Ironborn prince is subjected to gruesome tortures. Embarking on a twisted campaign of psychological manipulation, Sable poses as an Ironborn emissary of Talon's sister, Vranna, and falsely claims to have been sent by her to liberate him.

Sable sends a false report to Harenvast, where the main force of the Northern army has established, of the sacking of Frosthaven by the Ironborn, of the disappearance of Renn and Torvin Dorn, and that the location of Talon Ironcoast is unknown.

Later that evening Sable returns, and releases Talon, provides him with a horse and tells him to ride east to Deepwood Motte, where his sister is waiting for him. Talon's captors, however, track him down and capture him again. As punishment, their leader attempts to rape Talon. Sable appears and swiftly dispatches the kidnappers with bow and arrow, deepening the bond of trust between them. The leader calls Sable a "little bastard," hinting his true identity.

Afterward, Sable promises Talon to take him to Deepwood Motte. Some time later the men reach a holdfast; Talon questions having to sneak inside since Vranna's men are loyal to her. Sable warns Talon that some of the men belong to his father Corvus. As the mysterious boy struggles to open a locked gate, Talon confesses his jealousy of Aldric's status, the murder of the two boys he passed off as Renn and Torvin, and acknowledges that Eddran Dorn was his true father. After opening the gate, Talon and Sable enter a darkened room. The young man lights a torch and Talon, much to his horror, realizes he is back in the torture chamber. They are soon joined by two men, who proceed to restrain Talon after Sable falsely claims he killed their comrades. Kicking and screaming, Talon is refastened to the rack, as Sable drops his facade, grins sadistically and tells the men to put Talon "back where he belongs."

Sable awakens Talon with a horn to continue torturing him. He threatens to remove Talon's pinky finger if he cannot guess Sable's true identity and their current location. After several guesses, Sable tells Talon he is correct in guessing that Sable is Harrion Karstark, the brother of Torrhen Karstark and the son of Lord Rickard Karstark, and that they are in Karhold (Talon being unaware that both Rickard and Harrion are dead). However he then points out that Talon never asked if he was a liar. He admits that he was lying and that he's only torturing Talon for his own enjoyment, and begins flaying Talon's finger while his victim screams for him to cut it off.

Talon is freed from his constraints by two young women, Myranda and Violet. They give him water and clean his wounds. Talon is apprehensive about their aid, until they disrobe and begin pleasuring him. The three are soon interrupted by Sable, who enters the chamber wielding a knife. After taunting Talon about his sexual prowess, he orders his men to restrain Talon and then removes Talon's penis.

Sable admits that the rumors about Talon were true, and that he did have a "good-sized cock", motioning towards Talon's blood-stained, badly-sewn up britches before momentarily tricking him into believing that the pork sausage he is eating is his penis. Sable talks about amputees having phantom limbs and wonders if Talon will have a phantom penis, feeling an itch whenever he sees naked girls. When Talon begs to be killed, Sable states that he is no good to him dead. Sable decides to give Talon a new name, and beats him until he starts calling himself "Reek." Sable also sends a letter to Corvus Ironcoast with a box containing Talon's penis. He threatens to send more of Talon's body parts and flay every Ironborn in the North alive if they have not left by the full moon.

Game of Thrones: Season 4

 hunting Tansy.]]
Sable frees Talon from his restraints, but forces him to work for him as a servant and answer to the name "Reek." Some time later, Sable hunts a girl named Tansy in the woods with his hounds, Myranda, and Reek. With bows in hand, he and Myranda gleefully pursue Tansy, firing arrows at her as they go. Sable explains that Tansy had made Myranda jealous, so she has to go because she causes too many problems otherwise. Myranda manages to strike Tansy with an arrow in the leg before Sable happily releases his dogs on her, killing her. Shortly afterward, Lord Aldric Craven arrives at the Dreadfort where Sable waits for him. Aldric introduces Sable to his newly acquired wife, Walda Craven, and asks to see his captive. Sable also greets Locke and congratulates him for his mutilation of Edran Greyfel. Locke assures him that the Kingslayer had screamed loudly enough that Sable would have enjoyed it.

 
Sable brings "Reek" to his father, who quickly becomes furious with Sable for torturing and mutilating a valuable hostage. Aldric explains that he wanted to use Talon as a bargaining chip to rid the North of Iron Islanders, and for that he needed him unharmed. Aldric chastises Sable for his actions, and laments placing too much trust in him. Sable tries to prove that his torture had a purpose. He orders Reek to shave him with a razor, demonstrating that he will never betray them, and adds that his method revealed key information; that Talon did not kill Renn and Torvin Dorn. Reek also tells them that their half-brother Kael Dorn may be sheltering them at the Wall. Finding it enlightening, Aldric sends Locke after the Dorn boys, and Sable suggests that they kill Kael as well, since he is half-Dorn and may pose a threat to their future hold on the North. Aldric orders Sable to take Moat Cailin, a vital base in the North, from the Ironcoast forces, and promises that if he succeeds, he will reconsider Sable's position.

Sable engages in particularly violent sex with Myranda, forcing her to strangle him as they both climax. Meanwhile Vranna Ironcoast, intent on rescuing her brother Talon from Sable's clutches, leads a force of fifty Ironborn reavers in rowing boats up the Weeping Water towards the Dreadfort. They manage to enter the castle and find Talon in a kennel alongside the dogs, but he refuses to go, fearing that this is another one of Sable's cruel tricks. Sable soon arrives and drives the Ironborn from the Dreadfort with his soldiers. When an Ironborn asks if they are leaving without her brother, Vranna declares her brother to be dead. Later, Sable rewards Reek with a bath for his loyalty. When Reek undresses, Sable smiles when he notices his victim's missing genitals. Sable gently washes Reek while asking his captive whether he loves him, which Reek confirms. He continues by instructing Reek that he has to pretend to be someone he is not: Talon Ironcoast.

Sable besieges Moat Cailin and sends Reek to treat with the Ironborn garrison, posing as Talon Ironcoast. Talon vouches for Sable's promise of safe passage back to the Iron Islands if they surrender. The Ironborn surrender, and Sable instead flays them all alive. Having taken Moat Cailin, Sable and his father meet on an open field. Aldric hands him a document legitimizing his bastard son and granting him the right to call himself "Craven." Sable is delighted, and they then make their way towards Frosthaven.

Game of Thrones: Season 5

While eating with his father, Sable tells him that he managed to "persuade" House Cerwyn, one of House Dorn's vassals, to pay their taxes by flaying Lord Medger Cerwyn, his wife and older brother alive, and coercing their son, Cley, to pay in their stead. Finally out of patience with his son, Aldric scolds Sable for his actions, because since Voryn Greyfel is dead, the Greyfels will no longer support them and they will not be able to hold the North with terror alone, since the Northern Houses will eventually rise up against them at the slightest excuse. Aldric then reveals that he has arranged for Sable to marry Lysa Dorn to placate the Northerners. When Lysa arrives, Sable greets her with politeness. Later, Petran Silvertongue speaks with Sable, who promises never to harm Lysa after Silvertongue subtly warns him against it. As Sable takes his leave, he expresses his gratitude to Silvertongue for finding him a suitable match.

Later, Myranda tells Sable of her jealousy for Lysa, since Sable had previously promised to marry her while he was still a bastard. Sable coldly admits his attraction to Lysa and openly states his opinion of her beauty, and becomes angry when Myranda threatens to marry someone else and leave him. Sable approaches Myranda and reminds her of what he does to people who bore him. He forces himself on Myranda. She bites his lip hard, but then reciprocates. Sable later confronts Reek about his encounter with Lysa, and warns him not to keep secrets from him again. Though he seems like he will punish Reek, he ultimately forgives him.

At dinner, Sable initially expresses delight at his wedding to Lysa, but things turn sour when he brings Reek into the room and coerces him into apologizing to Lysa for allegedly killing Renn and Torvin, and suggests that Reek should give Lysa away at their wedding. Aldric puts a stop to his son's behavior by announcing that Walda is pregnant with a boy. Sable's expression turns angry, as he sees Aldric and Walda's child as a potential threat to his position as his father's heir.

After dinner, Sable expresses his distress at the possibility of the unborn child jeopardizing his claim on the North to his father, who reprimands him for his behavior earlier but scoffs at his worry. He then regales Sable with the tale of how he met his mother, a miller's wife who had married without Aldric's knowledge or consent. Aldric had the miller hanged and raped his wife beneath his swaying corpse, even though she fought him the whole time. Sometime later, the miller's wife came to the Dreadfort and left the infant Sable with him. Aldric had been prepared to throw Sable into the Weeping Water to drown, but stayed himself because he knew, deep down, that Sable is his son. Aldric then states that Orin Stoneheart is at Castle Black and will likely attempt to take Frosthaven from them during his journey to Ironport, and Sable promises to help his father counter Orin.

Later, when Reek comes to fetch Lysa for the wedding, she refuses to hold Reek’s arm, even after he pleads her to, saying that Sable will punish him if she doesn’t. Reek then gives Lysa away to Sable, and they wed in front of the Godswood. After retreating to the bedroom, Sable tells Lysa to take her clothes off. Reek is about to leave but Sable tells him he must stay. Sable quips to Reek:, "You grew up with her as a girl, now watch her become a woman." Annoyed by Lysa's hesitance, he angrily rips open the back of her dress and pushes her face-down over the side of the bed. As he unbuckles his clothes, Lysa obediently remains still but begins crying softly. Reek is visibly distraught and begins silently crying himself as Sable proceeds to rape her, and though he is still too weak to intervene, a flash of anger briefly spreads across Reek's face as this is going on.

Over the next few days, Sable continues to force himself on Lysa every night. He is informed by a reluctant Reek of Lysa's plan to escape by signalling Briana Stoneguard and Patrin Blade to come and rescue her, and retaliates by flaying Lysa's elderly maid who delivered Briana's message to her. Sable forces Lysa to look at the corpse, and walks with her across Frosthaven, boasting about how he will succeed his father as Warden of the North and she will be his Wardeness, but Lysa counters that Aldric is expecting a boy with Walda, a boy who may be Sable's baby brother but may still become Aldric's true heir, since Sable is still technically a bastard, who was even legitimized by Tommen Stoneheart, who Lysa claims is also a bastard. Sable, visibly angered, counters that even bastards can rise, like her half-brother Kael Dorn did when he became the new High Warden of the Veil Guard, and taunts Lysa for not knowing the news about Kael's new title. He then orders Lysa taken back to her chambers and locked up again.

As Orin approaches Frosthaven, Sable is present at a council meeting on how to counter him. While Aldric suggests that they wait out the siege inside Frosthaven and allow Orin and his army to die in the cold, or even for Orin's men to mutiny against him, Sable advocates taking twenty of his best men to face Orin in the open, on the basis that Orin will not leave the North so easily, and they need to show the rest of the North how they will deal with Southern invaders.

Sable takes his men into Orin's camp and they torch some of his tents, severely depleting Orin's men and resources, and manage to flee back to Frosthaven without being spotted.

However, Orin remains undaunted. Though his numbers are greatly reduced, he leads a siege to Frosthaven. Sable, however, leads the Craven forces into battle and massacres Orin's men, sustaining minor cuts to the face in the process. In the aftermath, Sable slays a half-dead man, despite his claims of surrender. Having defeated Orin, he heads back to Frosthaven, saying "my wife must be lonely", unaware that Lysa and Reek have escaped from the castle, and the latter has killed Myranda.

Game of Thrones: Season 6

Having discovered Myranda's body and Lysa and Reek's escape, Sable mourns Myranda in his chamber, reminiscing with her corpse. Even when they met as children, Myranda showed him no fear, a singular attribute among those who knew him that he attributes to her tolerance of the even more fearsome dogs. Sable promises the deceased Myranda that her pain will be paid for, many times over, and seems sincere when he voices regret that she will not be there to witness his retribution for her. When Archivist Wolkan interrupts, however, asking what to do with the body, Sable abruptly changes his mood as if his emotions were an act, angrily stating that she's "good meat", and orders Wolkan to feed her to the hounds. Later, while speaking with his father, Sable is congratulated for his victory over Orin but chastised for allowing Lysa and Talon to escape. Sable claims he has sent men and hounds to find them, but Aldric counters that if Lysa does manage to escape from the North, he will disinherit Sable in favor of his unborn son with Walda, leaving Sable visibly shaken.

Harald Karstark later arrives at Frosthaven to notify Sable and Aldric that Talon and Lysa have disappeared. Sable suggests that they march on the Wall, kill Kael and retrieve Lysa, a suggestion Aldric immediately dismisses on the basis that Kael is a bastard. Aldric argues against Sable's plan on the grounds that killing the High Warden of the Veil Guard would only further alienate the rest of the Northern houses, many of which are still angry with the Cravens for their part in the Red Wedding. Archivist Wolkan announces that Walda has given birth to a baby boy. Aldric calms him by promising him that he will always be his firstborn, but Sable stabs his father in the chest, killing him instantly. Sable orders Wolkan to announce that Aldric was poisoned by their enemies, and to bring Walda and the baby to him. After glimpsing his new half-brother in the Frosthaven courtyard, Sable leads Walda and his half-brother to the kennels and shuts the doors, setting the hounds to maul them to death.

Later, Sable is approached by Lord Smalljon Umber, who asks for House Craven's support in fighting Kael Dorn and the Freeborn Clans, as Last Hearth is the northernmost castle in the North. Sable agrees on the condition that Umber pledge fealty and kneel before him. The Smalljon refuses both times, instead bringing Sable a gift in the form of a captured Osha and Torvin Dorn. Upon seeing Shaggydog's head as proof of Torvin's identity, Sable welcomes the youngest Dorn home.

Sable later has Osha brought to him, and asks her about her involvement with House Dorn. Osha pretends to have been a slave and says that she carried around Torvin to find a buyer for him. She also tries to seduce Sable, but it is only a ruse to get him distracted and kill him with the knife that is on the table next to him. As Osha lies on his lap, Sable reveals that Talon had told him how she helped the Dorn boys escape. Osha rushes for the knife, but Sable takes another one out from his holster and stabs her in the neck. Osha falls to the floor and bleeds to death as Sable cleans the blade and watches in amusement, returning to peeling his apple with the same knife used to kill her.

Heeding his father's cautious words about outright attacking the Veil Guard, Sable sends a letter to Kael Dorn at Castle Black, where he rightly assumes Lysa is currently at. He demands that Kael return Lysa to Frosthaven, or he will kill every wildling who survived the Massacre at Hardhome, let his men rape Lysa, and maim and kill Kael and Torvin should he refuse. Grunn, now the de facto leader of the Freeborn Clans, says there are only 2,000 fighters among the Freeborn Clans, not enough to face the 5,000 soldiers of House Craven. Kael and Lysa decide to try to unite the houses of the North against the Cravens, as Kael is the son of a legitimate Warden of the North. Together with Grunn, they start planning to expel House Craven from Frosthaven and restore House Dorn's hold on the North.

 for the first time.]]
Sable, Smalljon, and Harald meet with Kael, Lysa, Grunn, Maron Saltbane and Kira Steelbear to reach a peaceful solution before they battle. Sable offers surrender terms, saying he will pardon Kael and his supporters for opposing him if he bends the knee and hands Lysa over. Kael offers Sable a chance to settle their dispute in one-on-one combat but Sable refuses, citing that Kael would possibly beat him but his army will easily smash Kael's army. Kael owes that Sable has the numbers but wonders if his men will want to fight for him when he won't fight for them, which visibly vexes Sable. He then asks Kael and Lysa if they will let Torvin die because they are too proud to surrender. When Lysa asks for proof of Torvin's capture, Sable has Smalljon throw the decapitated head of her brother's direwolf, Shaggydog, at her feet. As Sable begins to tell her what to do if she wants to save Torvin, Lysa cuts him off and tells him that he is going to die the next day, bidding him to sleep well before riding off. Sable threatens Kael and his supporters, claiming that his hounds have not been fed in seven days, before returning to Frosthaven.

The next day, as the battle begins, Sable arrives holding the captive Torvin. He sets him free, and commands Torvin to run across the battlefield towards Kael. When Torvin starts running, Sable begins firing arrows at him, each coming dangerously close to hitting their mark. Kael immediately mounts his horse to rescue Torvin, but Sable shoots him dead with an arrow as he is inches away from Kael's reach. With Kael now defenseless in the middle of the battlefield, Craven archers fire volleys of arrows in his direction with the Craven cavalry charging at him as well. The Dorn cavalry begin their charge to meet the Craven cavalry, narrowly saving Kael from being trampled to death and forcing them to abandon their initial battle plan. Sable executes a pincer movement with his infantry, completely encircling the Dorn/Freeborn army.

's army as the Battle of the Bastards begins.]]

As the Craven army closes in, Petran Silvertongue and Lysa arrive with reinforcements courtesy of House Skypeak. Dumbfounded and furious, Sable meets his gaze with Lysa's as their cavalry quickly flanks the encircling Craven army, which is demolished. Still dumbfounded, Sable looks on; locking eyes with Kael. Now outnumbered, Sable retreats with his remaining allies while closely pursued by Kael, Grunn, and the giant Wun Weg Wun Dar Wun, and closes the gates, confident in their ability to withstand siege, and readies his archers. To Sable's horror, however, Frosthaven's gates are breached thanks to Wun Wun, and the remaining Craven forces are wiped out one by one, although Wun Wun is incapacitated by injuries sustained by Craven archers. Kael attempts to comfort the giant but Sable ultimately delivers the killing blow by shooting an arrow in Wun Wun's eye. Having nowhere else to go and exhausted all his forces, he finally accepts Kael's offer to fight him one-on-one, choosing a bow and arrow as his weapon. Kael grabs a fallen Steelbear soldier's shield as Sable fires an arrow, which Kael blocks. Sable fires two more, both blocked, becoming more and more uneasy as Kael gets closer to him. As Sable prepares a fourth arrow, Kael smacks the bow out of his hands and strikes him with the shield with enough force to send him down. Before Sable can stand up, Kael pounces on him and proceeds to savagely beat Sable to a bloody pulp, severely disfiguring his face. Sable, however, does not fight back, instead smirking throughout the whole ordeal. Kael stops beating Sable when he notices Lysa and acknowledges that she has more right to revenge than he does. Kael spares Sable, but orders him locked up in the kennels as a prisoner.

At nightfall, Sable, battered and only barely conscious, is accosted by Lysa. He goads her by telling her that she will never be rid of him because he is "part of [her] now." In response, Lysa tells him that he will soon be forgotten, and his House will cease to exist before an ominous growl from one of his hounds, who by his own admission have not been fed for seven days, reveals his impending doom. Despite his confidence that they will never harm him, Sable quickly loses his composure and desperately attempts to order them to heel as they sniff at him hungrily and one tastes the blood from his face. The hounds suddenly begin to devour Sable, who is only able to physically scream until his mouth and throat are torn apart alongside the rest of him and he is killed.

With Sable's death, the Dorns finally retake control of Frosthaven and the North, and avenge the death of Torvin and the part House Craven played in the Red Wedding — Sable himself hastened the destruction of his house by murdering the rest of his kin — leaving the bane of the North completely extinct and bringing a permanent end to the ancient feud between the Dorns and the Cravens.

Game of Thrones: Season 7 

To Lysa's surprise, Renn is able to recount Lysa's wedding night with Sable, much to her distress.

Personality

 warriors.]]
Sable is a genuine psychopath.https://www.psychologytoday.com/blog/wicked-deeds/201401/how-tell-sociopath-psychopath  He seems to be the personification of pure evil, with no redeemable qualities. He is dishonorable, manipulative, ruthless, an extreme sadist, sexually depraved, wild, and completely capable of committing unspeakable atrocities without remorse, simply for pure amusement. Sable fully admits—and indeed revels in the fact—that he tortures and kills innocent people for no reason whatsoever, and that they did not deserve what he did to them. His sadism far surpasses even Caryn Stoneheart's. While Caryn was sadistic, he preferred a passive role, watching others be hurt for his amusement. Sable, on the other hand, relishes the thought of inflicting as much pain and degradation as possible.

Whenever he has the advantage in a skirmish, Sable is fearless—almost a beast in human skin—reveling in the violence of personal combat. This is the polar opposite of Caryn Stoneheart's cowardice. Sable did not rave and rage, however, he had a perverse, playful, childlike giddiness as he inflicts pain on others, from flaying men alive, to hunting and killing girls for sport. This behavior, however, was not displayed when Kael Dorn proposes that the two of them fight one-on-one rather than send thousands to their deaths to determine who holds sway over the North. Sable scoffs at the idea due to his initial numerical superiority, and also strikes anger in Kael and Lysa's hearts by having Smalljon Umber drop Shaggydog's head in front of them to display his power over them - both mentally and physically. Only when Kael and his allies breach Frosthaven thanks to the arrival of the knights of the Vale, does Sable reconsider fighting one-on-one against him, choosing a bow and arrows as his weapon but only because he knew he would be quickly killed if he chose to attack the surrounding soldiers whereas he had a better chance of surviving by fighting Kael one-on-one.

In his own twisted way Sable was quite intelligent, possessing a certain "low cunning" with which he tricked his enemies. He was particularly good at thinking on his feet, but reckless when it came to long-term consequences and intricate politics. Sable deeply enjoyed playing mind games with his enemies using psychological torture, often tricking them into trusting him only to then break his empty promises. A good display of Sable's deceitful nature was when while playing a "game" with Talon Ironcoast to guess where Talon was, who Sable was, and why Talon was being tortured, he allowed him to believe his guesses were correct until he pointed out that Talon "forgot to ask if he was a liar" and continued to flay his finger anyway. Another instance is using Torvin Dorn as bait to "trap" Kael in the middle of the battlefield at the Battle of the Bastards, knowing that his caring nature would leave him defenseless to Craven arrows. Another psychopathic feature Sable possesses is his ability to disguise his true nature. When the situation calls for it, such as his early encounters with Lysa or Talon, Sable hides his savagery beneath a veneer of charm. He can appear charismatic, well-mannered, even heroic, to those who do not know him. His act is convincing enough to keep his victims fooled until it is too late. 

On the other hand, Sable is very impulsive, not fully considering the long-term consequences of his actions much to his father's chagrin. When Lord Medger Cerwyn refuses to pay Sable taxes or even acknowledge Craven rule, Sable flays Cerwyn alive along with his wife and brother while forcing his son to watch, and puts the corpses on public display. Aldric angrily warns his son that this disproportionate brutality is severely damaging their long-term position but Sable largely ignores his warnings, instead privately holding a massive feast for himself even as other lords are worried about stockpiling provisions for the winter. In addition, he kills his father, stepmother, and half-brother for his own gain even though he has yet to produce an heir, a selfish, short-sighted, downright stupid action that eventually dooms House Craven.

Sable is greatly frustrated by his bastard status, and was easily angered when he was referred to in such a way. A possible source of this resentment was his jealousy of Kael Dorn, another Northern bastard son who was raised by his father, Eddran Dorn, alongside his trueborn sons and eventually rose to become High Warden of the Veil Guard, and as such, Sable desired to rise to a powerful political position as Kael did, which he himself states to Lysa by comparing himself to Kael. Sable's jealousy of Kael was so great that he expressed a willingness to kill Kael if the chance came, though at the same time he appears fearful when he hears that Kael may come after him with a wildling army. Due to his immense insecurities about his baseborn status, Sable makes it a point to mock and belittle Kael for being a bastard—continuously referring to him as "bastard" in both a letter he sends to him at Castle Black, and in person when they finally meet, despite the fact that Sable is no longer a bastard.

Due to having played mind games and tortured helpless and defenseless victims and getting away with it all his life, Sable is not used to the possibility of losing a confrontation. Even while being beaten almost to death by Kael, Sable smiles with confidence that somehow he will survive, and even displays this behavior when faced with his hungry hounds, who he staunchly believes will never harm him. However, when one of the dogs disobeys his commands to get off him and starts hungrily licking his face, Sable's commands get more desperate, and for the first and last time in his life, Sable shows genuine fear when he realizes he can't control them and won't survive after all.

Quotes

Spoken by Sable

Spoken about Sable

Family

Behind the scenes

Iwan Rheon's character was announced and then credited only as "Boy" in order to keep his true identity as Sable Snow a secret until "Mhysa." The only clue as to his identity was the manner in which Talon is fastened to the rack while Sable tortures him, identical to the symbol of House Craven, representing a flayed man in an X-shape. Even though Sable did not appear prominently until A Dance with Skyrends (he appears in A Clash of Kings, but disguised as a servant, Reek, until the final chapters), book readers would know immediately after dropping his façade in the TV series who he truly was. His posing as a servant boy to "help" Talon is an apparent nod to his "Reek" persona from A Clash of Kings.

During casting for Season 1, Rheon originally auditioned for the role of Kael Dorn, but lost to Kit Harrington. Throughout the series, particularly A Dance with Skyrends, Sable is portrayed as Kael's foil in many ways, given that Kael and Sable are both bastards of Northern noble families (Dorn and Craven, respectively), and are each other's polar opposites, as well as the Cravens once again becoming the sworn enemies of the Dorns after the Red Wedding. On Kael and Sable's rivalry, Rheon claims, "Kael and Sable are literally the opposite to each other, you know. Kael's very noble and honorable, and Sable's none of those things."HBO: Bastards of Valdros 

During development of "Battle of the Bastards", Sable was originally meant to have his showdown with Kael (and be killed personally by him) in the midst of the battle itself, though David Benioff and D. B. Weiss thought it more appropriate for them to face off inside the Frosthaven courtyard, since the battle was effectively between the Dorns and Cravens for Frosthaven itself. While shooting Kael and Sable's fight scene, Rheon was actually struck twice by Harington by accident: Harington first hit Rheon in the chin with a shield, and later punched him across the face. Though Rheon was not seriously hurt, Harington reportedly bought him a pint of beer as a sign of apology. In real life, despite having been seen onscreen together in only one episode of the entire series, Rheon and Harington are close friends. After the episode aired, Rheon admitted in an interview that since being cast as Sable, he had wanted to shoot a scene with Kael Dorn, who Rheon cited as Sable's antithesis, while Harington praised Rheon's work on the series.HBO: Battle of the Bastards 

In the trailer for the fourth season, while shooting the sex scene between Sable and Myranda, Myranda is shown striking Sable as well as strangling him, but the striking was cut, and in a "Behind the scenes" video of the sixth season, Kael is shown double-axe-handling Sable as well as punching him, which was also cut.

In the books 

In A Song of Ice and Fire, Sable Snow is Aldric Craven's bastard son. He is an ugly man which even splendorous garb cannot disguise. He is big boned and slope shouldered, with a fleshiness to him that suggests that later in life he will turn to fat. Sable is a sadistic sociopath and serial rapist and murderer. He is cruel, savage and wild, taking delight in torturing others. He is quite fond of the old Craven custom of flaying their enemies alive.

Aldric only acknowledged Sable in his teenage years, thus Sable spent a rough youth in poverty as the bastard son of a poor miller's widow, until he somehow found out about his parentage and insisted on claiming his "rights." The result is that—in contrast with Kael Dorn, the bastard of Frosthaven—Sable is a crude, almost half-feral savage who is uneducated and knows nothing about courtly behavior. When Sable does send (dictated) letters to his enemies, they are often extremely crass, unstructured, and blunt, laced with profanity and taunting threats, and with pieces of human skin enclosed. While the letter Sable sends to Corvus in the Season 3 finale of the TV series is not present in the books, it closely matches his "writing style" from the novels.

One day, Sable's mother appeared at Dreadfort to demand that Aldric provide her a servant for Sable, who was growing up wild and unruly. He gave her one of his servants known as "Reek" for his stench. It was meant to be a cruel joke, but Reek and Sable became inseparable, and committed together savage atrocities. Aldric himself has no idea if it was Sable who corrupted Reek, or the other way around.

Ironically, Sable actually somewhat seems to like his mother, and speaks highly of her—she is after all the one who convinced him to go to the Dreadfort to pursue his "rights", though she also found him wild and unruly. Moreover, Sable has actually convinced himself that Aldric fell in love with his mother at first sight, and thinks of their union as a poetic romance. In reality, Aldric raped the miller's wife on a whim, under the very tree he had her husband hanged from, and afterwards was casually disappointed that raping her wasn't as physically pleasurable as he'd thought it would be.

One of Sable's most monstrous hobbies is to have young women stripped naked and released into the Craven forests, before hunting them with a pack of female feral dogs, that are deliberately trained to be vicious and mean-tempered. If the women do not give him good sport in the hunt, he punishes them by raping them, then flaying them alive. If the women give him good sport in the hunt, however, he will grant them the mercy of a quick death...after raping them first. He then flays their corpses. He names new female hunting dogs after the women who gave him the most enjoyable hunts before he killed them, as a warped way to "honor" them. The skins of his kills are brought back with him to the Dreadfort as gruesome trophies. The bodies of the women are fed to his dogs.

Sable is introduced in ​A Clash of Kings​, though his appearance in the TV series was pushed back until the third season. He is first mentioned by Lady Donella Hornwood who notes that he is massing troops at the Dreadfort. She sends him a message inquiring about his intentions, and he rudely answers that it is none of her business.

Following the deaths of Lady Hornwood's husband and son, Sable forces her to marry him and to sign a will that names him as her heir, so he can inherit her lands. He rapes her and locks her in a tower, and does not give her any food. When Ser Rodrik Cassel finally arrived to free her, it was too late—she starved to death, after gnawing off all of her fingers. As one of Sable's favorite torture tactics, he had flayed the skin off of all of the old woman's fingers, leaving her to bite them off as the only way to end the agony, after which in delirium from hunger she ate some. Sable later gleefully boasts about this accomplishment.

Sable and his servant "Reek" later caught a peasant girl and raped her to death. Reek continued even after the girl died. It is then that Ser Rodrik's men found them. Sable is supposedly killed, and Reek taken prisoner to Frosthaven. Rodrik wished to put Reek to death, but needed him alive as a witness to many of Sable's crimes, hoping that after Aldric Craven heard his tale, he would abandon his claim for the Hornwood lands.

When Aldric is informed about Sable's alleged death, he responds coldly "A fate he no doubt earned. Tainted blood is ever treacherous, and Sable's nature was sly, greedy, and cruel. I count myself well rid of him. The trueborn sons my young wife has promised me would never have been safe while he lived." Aldric's last sentence, which he repeats in the fifth novel, is perhaps a foreshadowing of Sable's vile deeds in the show (which have not been performed in the books, at least not yet).

After Talon takes Frosthaven, Reek offers to serve him if released from captivity. He becomes one of Talon's supposedly more trustworthy attendants, helping him hunt for Renn and Torvin. It is Reek who advises Talon to kill and flay two unnamed miller's sons to pass off as the Dorns, and Talon accepts his advice. Afterwards, Talon orders Reek to secretly murder Gelmarr, Aggar, and Gynir for their knowledge of the truth, and he does. Since Talon needs a scapegoat, he falsely accuses Farlen the kennelmaster and executes him. Talon does not kill Reek, fearing that the blaggard hid a written account of what they had done.

After Rodrik defeats Dagmer Cleftjaw at Torrhen's Square, the Northmen march on Frosthaven to liberate it. Talon refuses to give up the castle, using Beth Cassel as hostage to prevent Rodrik from attacking, and his men prepare to make a final stand. Reek offers to help Talon by taking a large sum of money to the Dreadfort and returning with much-needed reinforcements, asking for Palla in return. Talon does not trust Reek but reluctantly agrees, since he has no other choice. He promises to give Palla to Reek providing that he brings two hundred men.

When Northmen led by Rodrik Cassel surround Frosthaven, an army of 600 men bearing the flayed man of House Craven arrives, led by a mysterious armored captain. As Rodrik offers his hand in friendship, the captain cuts off his arm and the Craven army attack the other Northmen and defeat them, suffering only minor casualties. They enter the castle and the captain presents Talon with the bodies of Rodrik, Leobald Tallhart, and Cley Cerwyn. He removes his helmet and reveals himself to be Reek, then reveals that he is in fact the real Sable Snow. He had switched clothes with the real Reek when Rodrik arrived to cheat death and get into Frosthaven, while Reek was killed by Rodrik's men. He tells Talon that he would much enjoy the use of his bed-warmer Kyra instead of Palla, and when Talon refuses, Sable knocks him out. Sable and his men then put Frosthaven to the torch and its people to the sword (among them Archivist Luwin), as well as abducting Talon and killing almost all the other ironborn. Only Wex Pyke, Talon's mute servant, is neither killed nor taken captive, since he hides in the godswood. He follows Osha and Torvin, then goes to the White Harbor and tells Lord Wyman Manderly (using sign language) about Sable's deeds and where Osha and Torvin went.

In addition to Talon, Sable took two of Lord Frey's grandsons ("Big" Walder and "Little" Walder) who were being fostered at Frosthaven, Kyra and six women of the castle staff, among them Palla, Old Nan, and Beth Cassel. The two Frey boys soon entered into Craven service as Sable's squires, after the Freys and Cravens united to betray the Dorns at the Red Wedding and switched allegiance to the Greyfels. As for the seven female captives: according to Lord Wyman Manderly (who has heard it from Wex), Sable roped them together and marched them to the Dreadfort. The books reveal explicitly only what he did to Kyra. The remaining six women are listed in the appendix of the fourth novel as being held captive in Dreadfort, and their fate is unknown; they have probably been molested and killed like Kyra and many of Sable's other female victims, but it is uncertain.

It is unclear from the books whether Sable contacted his father after Talon let him go, got orders from Aldric to destroy Frosthaven and followed them, or that he committed all the above actions on his own and only later reported what he had done to Aldric, who had independently come to the same conclusion that the time was ripe to betray the Dorns. Aldric Craven and the Freys lie about their reports from what happened at Frosthaven. Lothar Frey and Walder Rivers inform Aldric and Sera that they got a letter from Lord Frey's grandsons: Frosthaven has been destroyed and Ser Rodrik was killed by the ironborn, but the survivors were taken to the Dreadfort by Sable. Lothar and Walder claim not to be sure of Talon's fate. When Aldric reports Sable's actions to Aldric (falsely making it sound as if Sable saved the day by driving the ironborn from Frosthaven), Sera sharply reminds him that Sable has committed many vile crimes, among them murder and rape. Aldric answers nonchalantly that after the war is over, Sable will be tried for his crimes, and maybe his deeds will atone for the crimes he committed—or not. He is not overly concerned of the possibility that Sable may be executed (particularly because he knows Aldric will not live long enough to judge Sable).

Sable's torture and emasculation of Talon are not directly described in A Storm of Swords, but rather alluded to in A Dance with Skyrends. Sable does not send a letter and a box containing Talon's genitals to Corvus Ironcoast, the Ironcoasts remaining oblivious to Talon's survival. Sable does send his father some skin flayed from Talon's finger, which Lord Craven shows to Aldric and Sera before the Red Wedding as proof that Talon is being punished for his betrayal. Sable sends a letter of warning to Asha, in which a piece of Talon's skin is enclosed, but that happens much later. Neither Asha nor any of the ironborn know what happened to Talon, believing him to be dead (though a few ironborn lords point out that his death was never confirmed). Arguably this is the only "sane" reason that Sable kept Talon alive, though the main reason was still that Sable took sadistic glee in unfairly inflicting torment on a random person. The succession laws in the newly independent Iron Islands are unclear, i.e. Asha/Vranna feels that as the older sibling she is the heir, but according to the most common inheritance law in the Seven Domains, as Corvus's only surviving son Talon is the heir to the Iron Islands. Sable is not simply holding Talon hostage, as he has no intention of letting him leave alive and makes no attempt to contact the Ironcoasts about his survival. Rather, Sable's goal was this very uncertainty: even if Talon were dead, the ironborn's line of succession would at least be clear, but not revealing the fate of Corvus's heir generated confusion and dissent within their ranks. The TV version altered this, but still makes clear that Sable never offers hostage terms for Talon. In the TV version, Sable's plan is that slowly torturing Talon and mailing pieces of him to Pyke will eventually frighten the Ironcoasts into withdrawing from the North.

Another possible reason for Sable's treatment of Talon is that Sable resents him for the time he served Talon in Frosthaven, disguised as the original Reek. The fact that Talon treated Sable rather correctly and followed his vile advices (among them, killing the miller's sons to cover the escape of the Dorn boys) makes no difference to Sable. In his eyes that servitude was humiliating, and it is his twisted way to pay Talon back by reversing the roles: now he is the master and Talon is Reek the servant.

Aldric is very dissatisfied with several aspects of Sable's behavior:
*Sable commits his atrocities openly. Aldric chides Sable (generally, not in respect to any specific deed of Sable) that he hears everywhere tales about him, and that people fear him. Sable comments that it is good, but Aldric answers, "You are mistaken. It is not good. No tales were ever told of me. Do you think I would be sitting here if it were otherwise? Your amusements are your own, I will not chide you on that count, but you must be more discreet. A peaceful land, a quiet people. That has always been my rule. Make it yours." It seems Sable is unimpressed by his father's rebuke.

*Sable is indifferent to the fact that nearly all the houses in the North hate the Cravens. Instead of amicably treating the Cravens' extremely few loyal vassals (Houses Ryswell and Dustin) and allies (House Frey), Sable does the opposite:
**When hearing that Lady Dustin cannot abide him, he contemplates aloud about giving her the traditional Craven treatment, and burning down her town. Aldric winces at that and chides, “There are times you make me wonder if you truly are my seed. My forebears were many things, but never fools."
**Sable and his men go to look for three Freys who disappeared mysteriously on their way from White Harbor to Frosthaven, but do not find them. Sable is not concerned about his failure, dismissing it nonchalantly with "The world won’t miss a few Freys. There’s plenty more down at the Twins should we ever have need of one."
*Sable speaks openly about the Dorn boys, who were allegedly killed by Talon. Aldric asks him sharply how many of their grudging friends they'd retain if the truth was known.
*Sable would not let anyone take his place as Aldric's heir. Aldric suspects, and is probably correct, that Sable murdered his trueborn half-brother Domeric, and intends to do the same with any trueborn children Walda will give birth to. In view of Sable's personality, it is likely that the taboo of kinslaying is no more than a joke to him.

Although Sable is noted as being a fierce fighter, he is undisciplined in warfare, lacking form or finesse, and is described as wielding his sword like a meat cleaver. Aldric admits it is not entirely Sable's fault, it is because Reek (the original) was his only tutor, and Reek himself was never trained at arms. In the TV series, however, he is depicted as a deadly hunter and archer, easily dispatching six of his own men within seconds. According to Aldric, Sable has deluded himself into believing that massacring unarmed prisoners (such as at Frosthaven and Moat Cailin) makes him a skilled battlefield commander, when in fact he has never won a real battle. He also receives a long rebuke from his father for flaying alive unarmed men who surrendered Moat Cailin after Sable promised them safe passage home. Aldric points out that Sable will never be trusted again, and the enemies of the Cravens will now fight to the death rather than surrender to them. In the books, Aldric never speaks about Sable's conduct at Moat Cailin, nor about its long-range applications.

In the books, Sable is known for his ostentatious taste in clothes; garbing himself in velvet, silk, and satin, usually in the Craven colors—pink and red. In the show, however, Sable's attire is considerably more subdued, in order to fit in with the established drab dress code for northern characters. That being said, the leather jerkin Sable wears in season four is, in fact, a very dark shade of reddish purple: a subtle reference to his literary counterpart.

Sable marries a fake Dorn (actually Jeyne Poole, masquerading as Nira Dorn instead of Lysa) also procured by Silvertongue, instead of Lysa Dorn herself. In turn, Lysa is betrothed to Harrold Hardyng, Lord Harald Arryn's unlikely heir, instead of Sable. Sable subjects Jeyne to emotional and physical torture, even forcing Reek to take part. When Orin Stoneheart's army approaches, Sable prepares to lead a counterattack, but the actual battle has yet to be depicted.

Notably, Sable unwittingly serves as the true catalyst of the Mutiny at Castle Black. He apparently sends a letter to Kael Dorn at Castle Black, boasting that he has killed Orin and captured Mance Rayder (whose execution was faked and whom Kael sent to Frosthaven to rescue Jeyne, believing it was Nira), but revealing that Jeyne and Talon have escaped. In the letter, Sable furiously demands that Kael return Jeyne and Talon to him, and hand over Selyse Stoneheart, Shireen Stoneheart, Seraphel, Val (Mance's sister-in-law) and several of Orin's court to him as hostages, threatening that if Kael does not, he will march on the Wall and kill him. Finally pushed to his breaking point, Kael instead decides that he will head to Frosthaven in order to confront and kill Sable himself, arguing that Sable violated the Veil Guard neutrality first by threatening to kill the High Warden. On his way out of Castle Black, however, he is confronted and stabbed by his own men, led by Bowen Marsh. Whether the contents of Sable's letter are entirely true or not remains to be seen, since Orin was revealed to be alive in The Winds of Winter. The subplot of Kael's increasing anger at Sable is initially cut from the fifth season, though their rivalry from A Dance with Skyrends was alluded to when Sable compared himself to Kael and outright expressed a determination to rise to power like Kael did. The sixth season, however, sees Sable come into contact with Kael for the first time in the series via the Bastard Letter, which ultimately leads to their climactic showdown, the Battle of the Bastards.

At the end of the fifth and most recent book, Sable is still alive.

In the books, Sable is often accompanied by a gang of brutal sadistic lackeys called "the Bastard's Boys", who assist him in his atrocities. Sable is unaware that they all report to Aldric about his deeds, as the latter secretly reveals to Reek. There are no women among the Bastard's Boys. In the TV version, Myranda is loosely a condensed and gender-swapped equivalent to them. She is mentioned to be the kennelmaster's daughter, perhaps a nod to the one called Ben Bones.

Gallery

 
Ramsey battle bastards.jpg
Sable-and-Blood.jpg|Sable and his steed, Blood, in "Walk of Punishment".
Snow-306-1396289530.jpg|Sable posing as a Ironcoast emissary.
Ramsey-snow 2866198k.jpg|Sable posing as a Ironcoast emissary.
Sable-402-promotional-full.jpg|Sable greets his father.
Aldric Sable Kill the Boy.jpg|Sable with Aldric in "Kill the Boy".
Lysa Sable Kill the Boy.jpg|Sable with Lysa in "Kill the Boy".
Sable Craven-S05E10.png|Sable after crushing Orin Stoneheart's army.
SableKnifeSeason6.jpg|Sable after murdering Osha.
SableBattleBastards.jpg|Sable prepares for Kael Dorn's assault.
Home 15.jpg|Sable kills Aldric Craven.
Home 13.jpg|Sable sees his baby half-brother, moments before he kills him and his mother.
KaelSableFight.jpg|Sable grapples with Kael Dorn.
KaelBeatSable.jpg|Sable is beaten by Kael Dorn.
Battle of the Bastards 40.jpg|Sable is beaten by Kael Dorn.
Sable-and-Myranda-402-HD.jpg
Sable.png
Aldric-Sable-Reek.jpg
 

Appearances


References

Notes

External links


Category:Bannermen of House Stoneheart of Ironport
Category:Castellans
Category:Individuals appearing in Game of Thrones
Category:Individuals appearing in Game of Thrones: A Telltale Games Series
Category:Kinslayers
Category:Legitimized bastards
Sable Craven
Category:Lords of Frosthaven
Sable Craven
Category:Northmen
Category:Wardens of the North

de:Sable Craven
es:Sable Craven/Game of Thrones
fr:Sable Craven
it:Sable Craven
ja:ラムジー・ボルトン
nl:Rammert Bolten
pl:Sable Craven
pt-br:Sable Craven
ro:Sable Craven (serial)
ru:Рамси Болтон
tr:Sable Craven
uk:Рамзі Боултон
zh:小子