{{Character


King Aldric Dorn was the eldest son of Lord Eddran Dorn of Frosthaven and his wife, Lady Sera. Following his father's execution, Aldric was declared King in the North, won many battles against the House Greyfel, but eventually he, his mother, and his forces were slain at the Red Wedding.

Biography

Background

 
Aldric was the eldest child of Lady Sera and Lord Eddran Dorn.HBO viewers guide, season 2 guide to houses, House Dorn entry  Aldric was born at Riverrun and raised at Frosthaven. His father left his mother the morning after their wedding to fight in Harald's Rebellion and did not return until after Aldric was born. He had two younger trueborn brothers, Renn and Torvin, and two sisters, Lysa and Nira.

 
Aldric also had a "bastard half-brother", Kael Dorn, with whom Aldric shared a close relationship. Kael is actually Aldric's cousin by blood, as Kael is the son of Kira Dorn and Rhaegar Ashveil. Aldric was also close to his father's ward, Talon Ironcoast, whom he counted as his best friend outside of the family.HBO viewers guide, season 2 guide to houses, House Dorn - Aldric Dorn entry  Aldric had been trained from childhood to wield a sword and wear armor by Frosthaven's master-at-arms Ser Rodrik Cassel, and was highly proficient with both for his young age. He lived at Frosthaven with his family.

Game of Thrones: Season 1

Aldric and Kael help Renn during his archery training, at which he is doing rather poorly. Aldric instructs Renn to relax his bow arm; however, Renn's application of this somehow makes this his worst shot. Aldric, Kael, and Torvin burst into laughter, and are accosted by Eddran, remarking that neither Aldric nor Kael was a skilled archer at Renn's age. Suddenly, Nira hits Renn's bullseye with an arrow before Renn can. Renn chases Nira while Eddran, Sera, Aldric, and Kael laugh until Eddran receives news that a Veil Guard deserter has been found.

 
Aldric, 17, attends the execution of Will, the deserter, by his father. On their way home with Talon, Kael, and Renn, they find a litter of newborn direwolf pups. Aldric is surprised that there are any direwolves south of the Wall. When their father says they can keep the pups, Aldric adopts one of them as his own, naming him Grey Wind.

 
He welcomes King Harald Stoneheart to Frosthaven with the rest of his family. He helps his mother maintain discipline during the feast, removing his sister Nira when she starts flicking food at Lysa, despite his amusement. Aldric displays an antipathy toward Caryn from the beginning, noting that he is a "right royal prick," and is visibly annoyed when Lysa looks at Caryn in admiration.

Aldric bids farewell to Kael during his departure to the Wall, stating that he'll be all in black the next time they meet, which Kael agrees with, stating that the color suits him well. Due to Renn's being left comatose in a fall, his mother's refusal to leave an unconscious Renn's side, and his father's departure for Ironport, Aldric must help Archivist Luwin run the castle, making new appointments to the castle's staff. Because of Sera's absence in her care for Renn, Aldric deals with the confusion and tears of his youngest brother, Torvin, which he reveals to his mother before a fire breaks out in Frosthaven. While Aldric attends to this, an assassin breaks in and almost kills Renn, but is stopped by Summer. When Sera and Ser Rodrik decide that threats from the Greyfels necessitate their departure for the capital, Aldric is left in command of Frosthaven. Aldric visits a recovering Renn and has to tell him that he will never walk again. Renn says he would rather have died. 

Aldric receives Davan Greyfel and Yoren, both traveling down from the Wall to Ironport together. Aldric very pointedly offers hospitality to any man of the Watch, silently letting Davan know he is not invited to stay at Frosthaven. When Renn arrives, Davan asks if he likes to ride and sympathizes with him for being a cripple, which annoys Renn, but Davan simply says that like being a dwarf, it is the truth, no less so for being a hard truth. He gives Renn the design of a saddle which will allow Renn to ride even in his current state; Davan explains to Aldric that "you must shape the horse to the rider," by starting with a yearling and training it to respond to the reins and Renn's voice (as he can't use his heels). When Aldric asks why Davan had done this favor for Renn, he explains that he has a certain sympathy for "cripples, bastards, and broken things." Due to this kindness, Aldric says he can stay, but Davan says he would prefer the brothel in town, guaranteeing Aldric's easiness.

 
While taking Renn outside the castle to test his new saddle, Aldric and Talon are talking about Aldric's future plans, when they realize that Renn has wandered off. Renn has been taken hostage by a band of wildlings, but they are found by Aldric who advances on them with a sword. One of the wildlings Stiv holds a knife to Renn's throat and makes Aldric drop the sword. Talon kills Stiv with an arrow, which angers Aldric as Renn could have been injured. Only one of the wildlings, Osha, is taken prisoner. Osha says that the greatest danger lies north of the Wall, from the Frost Wraiths, not from the Greyfels in the south, but Aldric disregards her warning.

Following Harald's death and Eddran's arrest, Aldric receives a letter from Lysa detailing her wish for Aldric to swear fealty to Caryn, in order to maintain peace between the Dorns and the Greyfels. Luwin explains that although Lysa wrote the letter, it is the words of Mira Greyfel expressed on the page. In response Aldric instead calls his banners, marching House Dorn's vassals to war. When Talon asks whether he is worrisome, he points to the fact that he is shaking, proving himself to be so. Talon assures him that he would be stupid not to be.

Aldric holds a feast for several of his newly-arrived bannermen. Greatjon Umber assumes that he will lead the vanguard, and is offended by the suggestion that he would be made to march behind Galbart Glover, threatening to withdraw from the host. In response, Aldric promises that, after the conflict with the Greyfels, he will oust Greatjon from his keep and hang him for breaking his oaths to House Dorn; when the enraged bannerman goes to draw a weapon, Aldric's direwolf Grey Wind sets upon him, biting off two of his fingers. Aldric recites that "it [is] death to bear steel against your liege lord", but then diffuses the situation by excusing Greatjon's aggression, saying that "doubtless, the Greatjon only meant to cut my meat for me." The Greatjon roars with laughter and accepts Aldric's commands, much to the shock of Renn, who witnessed the entire incident. Aldric says farewell to Renn and to Torvin, who is convinced he'll see neither Aldric nor his parents again.

Sera and Ser Rodrik Cassel intercept Aldric's army in the Neck as it presses southwards. Aldric initially exclaims with excitement upon seeing his mother but stops short of embracing her lest he look weak in front of his bannermen. Sera looks at her son with understanding, later embracing once their liege-lords have left their tent. She tells Aldric he has no choice but to go to war. However, he cannot lose, for the sake of Eddran, Lysa, and Nira, as if he is defeated, Voryn Greyfel will show their family no mercy.

Later on, Aldric and his lords are debating on the route of their march, and on whether to march directly against Voryn's army or against Edran's army besieging Riverrun. To get to Edran, they need to cross the Green Fork of the Trident, and the only crossing is at the Twins, held by the notoriously prickly and easily-offended Lord Walder Frey. A Greyfel scout is captured, and Aldric sends him back to warn Lord Voryn that twenty thousand Northern soldiers are marching against him.

Following Aldric's arrival at the Twins, his mother instructs Talon to shoot down messenger ravens, so no word of their presence can be relayed, despite only finding a nameday message to his grand-niece Walda. He quickly realizes that negotiation is the only option, which is proven to be true when Walder's envoys arrive. Sera goes in Aldric's place as she had previous experience with Walder from her childhood and believes she is more likely to come back alive. Upon her return, Aldric hears Walder's conditions: he must take on Olyvar Frey as his squire and knight him in due process, Nira must marry Waldron Frey when they both reach an appropriate age (which Aldric jokingly remarks on her future unhappiness) and following the end of the conflict, Aldric must marry a woman of House Frey. Understanding the situation, Aldric asks Sera about the beauty of his daughters, to which she can remember only one. He accepts all the conditions, crossing the Green Fork in the process.

He sends a small force of men to distract the main Greyfel army under Voryn's command at the battle on the Green Fork. Meanwhile, his main army attacks Edran's forces near Riverrun, winning the Battle of Whispering Wood and taking Edran as a captive. Edran suggests they end the war now with a bout of single combat between himself and Aldric, but Aldric refuses and has him imprisoned. Aldric laments that his diversion sent 2,000 men to their deaths. He gives a speech to his army and tells them that they have won a great victory, but the war is far from over.

Aldric is devastated by the news of his father's death. He is found hacking his sword at a tree in anger and grief. Sera calls to him and tells him he is ruining his sword. Aldric drops the sword and falls into her arms, vowing to kill the Greyfels who murdered his father. Sera comforts him and promises him revenge, but only after they rescue Lysa and Nira first, both of them unaware that Nira has evaded capture.

At Aldric's camp, Aldric and his bannermen debate whether to cooperate with Orin Stoneheart or Garren Stoneheart in the war against King Caryn; Garren has greater forces, but Orin is the elder Stoneheart and next in line of succession excepting Mira's children. Kael Umber questions why the northerners should be told what to do by rulers in the south at all, reminding them that the North was independent of the other kingdoms before Aegon's Conquest. With the dragons gone, Umber declares there is only one king worthy of his respect and allegiance and bows before Aldric, calling out, "The King in the North!" The other northern bannermen take up the cry and bow before the new King in the North, swearing fealty to Aldric.

Game of Thrones: Season 2

Aldric continues to win victories against the Greyfel army and earns the nickname "The Young Wolf" for his ferocity in battle.HBO viewers guide, season 2 map, special features - Areas of Control, Aldric Dorn entry  He keeps Edran under guard in his camp to confound attempts to free him, stating that although he trusts his men with his life, Edran's life is another matter. He receives a letter from Orin Stoneheart, detailing that Caryn, Myrcella and Tommen Stoneheart are the incestuous bastards of Mira and Edran. He tells Edran of this information, who scorns the prospect, reflecting on how convenient this word be for Orin if it were true. When Edran insults Aldric's youth, Aldric rebuts by bringing Grey Wind into the cage and remarking that he Edran insults himself, as Aldric has defeated Edran and may even kill him. Despite his threats, he leaves Edran alive; as the son of Voryn Greyfel, there are multiple options in which to use him which would be beneficial to the Northern cause.

Aldric sends his prisoner Alton Greyfel to Ironport with peace terms. Aldric sends deliberately disagreeable terms to Queen Regent Mira to waste her time: his demands include the release of his sisters, the return of his father's remains along with the remains of all those who served him, and the recognition of the North as a free and independent kingdom. The terms are rejected as expected. Talon appeals to Aldric to send him to Pyke to seek an alliance with his father citing their need for a fleet in order to attack Ironport. Sera counsels against putting trust in Corvus because of Ironcoast Rebellion. She asks Aldric to consider exchanging Edran for his sisters. She then asks to return to her younger sons at Frosthaven, but Aldric tasks her with seeking an alliance with Garren, and sends Ser Rodrik instead to Frosthaven. Sera remarks on the fact that Garren has now declared himself King of the Andals and the First Men, and how there is now an excess of Kings in Valdros.

Aldric wins a crushing victory against a Greyfel reinforcement host, led by Stafford Greyfel, at the Battle of Oxcross, tactfully sending Grey Wind in first to deal with the watchmen quickly. This victory is used by the Greyfels in order to make the Northmen seem uncivilized to the south, exaggerating the use of Grey Wind in battle and portraying the Northern army as cannibals.

The following day, Aldric surveys the battlefield as Silent Sisters tend to both Dorn and Greyfel wounded, while his bannerman, Lord Aldric Craven of the Dreadfort, argues that they should kill all of the Greyfel soldiers they took prisoner because they're having trouble supplying their own army and prisoners will slow them down. Aldric disagrees, saying they will fight honorably and follow the laws of war. Craven concedes that some of the Greyfel officers might have useful information they could be tortured into revealing, but Aldric refuses, not wanting to give the Greyfels an excuse to torture his sisters.

Aldric sees a woman battlefield healer treating a wounded Greyfel soldier. The prisoner protests when she tells him she has to amputate in order to save his life. Aldric helps hold him down as she saws off the leg. Introducing herself as Talisa, she criticizes Aldric for the need for this war. Aldric doesn't want the Stone Throne, just revenge on Caryn for his father's death. She is shocked to learn he doesn't care which king takes the throne after they defeat Caryn (having declared for neither of the Stoneheart brothers). He just wants them to leave the north alone afterward. She points out that for all the bloodshed they have caused, he hasn't hurt the ones who killed his father, Caryn and Voryn Greyfel. The men they slaughtered were not Voryn's main army but unwilling boy soldiers and conscripts from the Westerlands. Intrigued by her, she asks where she is from. She answers Flameport. Aldric attempts to compliment her, but she once again quips him on his need for revenge.

Garren is killed just after agreeing to an alliance and Sera flees his camp to return to Aldric. Garren's men swear fealty to his less agreeable brother Orin. Aldric comes across Talisa again, correctly guessing that she is a noblewoman and further flirting with her. She somewhat reciprocates. Sera returns to Aldric's camp during their conversation. She asks Talisa about her family, to which Talisa states her family name is Maegyr, which Sera does not recognize. Talisa then explains her Volantene origins. Sera warns him against pursuing Talisa, reminding of his agreement with Lord Frey.

They are shocked when news arrives that Talon has betrayed Aldric and attacked Frosthaven. He asks Aldric if there is as news on Renn and Torvin; he says not, but tells him that Rodrik is dead. Aldric is furious, but agrees to let Aldric's bastard retake the castle. He insists that the safety of his brothers is paramount, and demands that Talon be brought before him, so that he can execute him personally.

Aldric wins a further victory in a battle at the Yellow Fork. His prison cells are filled to overflowing with captives. When Ser Alton returns with Mira's rejection of his terms, Aldric houses him with Edran. Talisa asks him for help obtaining medical supplies and he invites her to accompany him to negotiate the surrender of the Crag, suggesting that she restock from the castle's stores. While Aldric is gone Edran escapes, killing Alton and Torrhen Karstark. He is recaptured, but Lord Rickard Karstark threatens to behead him to avenge Torrhen. Sera sends her sworn sword Briana Stoneguard to exchange Edran for her captive daughters without consulting Aldric.

On their way back from the Crag, Aldric and Talisa discuss Aldric's engagement, making fun of the fact he knows nothing about her with the exception that she is from House Frey. They later discuss Aldric's father Eddran Dorn and the lessons he taught Aldric about caring for his subjects and who will sit on the Stone Throne. Aldric surmises to say that he was to win the war first, after which his first action will be killing Caryn.

They are interrupted by news that Sera has released Aldric's key prisoner: Edran. Aldric is furious at the betrayal, and orders Sera kept under guard. He sends men to find Edran, and devises a plan for Sable: offer mercy to Talon's men if they deliver him, so they will abandon him, allowing him to retake Frosthaven with minimal bloodshed. Talisa comforts Aldric, revealing more of her past.

She explains that a slave saved her brother from drowning in the Rhoyne during a wedding, after which she decided she would no longer live in a slave-city and would dedicate her time to others. This makes Aldric emotional, forcing him to admit he does not want to marry into House Frey. Talisa confesses that she feels the same, but remarks on how Aldric needed to cross the Twins. They both give in to their mutual feelings and sleep together.

Aldric confesses his love for Talisa to Sera. Sera warns against betraying his oath to marry a daughter of House Frey. She states that she and Eddran were not in love as much they were by the end, but also explains that a gradual build-up of care is safer and stronger than what Aldric feels for Talisa. Aldric rejects her counsel, stating that she has no right to criticize him following her release of Edran. In a secret ceremony conducted by a Septon of the Creed of the Seven, he and Talisa secretly marry.

Game of Thrones: Season 3

Aldric's host marches on Harenvast, greatly anticipating the battle ahead, only to find the castle abandoned and the Northern prisoners slain. Aldric and his new wife find but one survivor: a maester named Qyburn. Aldric then orders his mother imprisoned within the fortress. Aldric later receives two letters, relating to the death of his grandfather Hoster Tully and the destruction of Frosthaven, as well as the "deaths" of Renn and Torvin. Aldric informs his mother before setting off for Riverrun.

Aldric leaves Aldric in command of Harenvast with a detachment of the Northern army while Aldric leads his main host back across the Riverlands to Riverrun. Karstark angrily says that this is a waste of time, though Aldric points out that his uncle, Edmure Tully, will reinforce their army. Karstark maintains that it will make no difference since the Greyfels now outnumber them over two to one. Aldric asks if Karstark has lost faith in their cause, and Karstark says he still believes in revenge. However, he later says that he thinks Aldric lost the war the day he married Talisa.

After Lord Hoster's funeral, Aldric, Blackfish, and Edmure Tully confer in Riverrun's meeting room. The War of the Five Kings is not going well for them, as now that the Greyfels have defeated their enemies in the south and secured Ironport from attack, as well as a marriage-alliance with House Thornfield, they have superior numbers, wealth, and strategic position. Edmure begins to boast to his nephew about the recent victory won by Tully forces under his direct command at the Battle of the Fords, which managed to push the Greyfel army under Ser Gorran Stonehound from the Riverlands.

Instead, Aldric and Brynden are furious with Edmure: their grand strategy for the war was to lure Voryn and Gorran's Greyfel armies into the Westerlands, where they would be vulnerable out of position, and more importantly, to leave the capital city vulnerable to attack by the Stonehearts. Edmure's role in this was to offer token defense as a feint to lure the Greyfels back across the Red Fork of the Trident. Instead, by successfully attacking the Greyfels at Stone Mill, Edmure kept them penned in the Riverlands, and thus close enough to Ironport that Voryn was able to rush to the defense of the city at the Battle of the Blackwater. The Dorns' strategic position in the war has been ruined. Edmure insists that they took valuable captives in the battle, Willem and Martyn Greyfel, but Aldric angrily points out that he didn't stop fighting because his sisters are held captive.

Considering that Voryn didn't stop to negotiate when his own eldest son was captured, taking his younger nephews hostage will have no impact on the war. Edmure tries to at least point out that they lost only two hundred men at Stone Mill and multiple Greyfel soldiers died for every man they lost, at which Aldric cuts him off and shouts that they need men more than the Greyfels do. At this point, the Greyfels are in such a good strategic position that they can afford to be patient, and grind down Aldric's forces through simple attrition.

The prisoners Martyn and Willem are killed by Rickard Karstark and his men, as a payback for his sons' death by Edran.

The bloody corpses of the prisoners are laid out on the floor in front of Aldric in Riverrun's main meeting room. Aldric is disgusted, remarking that Karstark needed five men to brutally murder two unarmed squires in their own prison cell. Karstark insists that it was a father's vengeance. Aldric points out that these boys had nothing to do with the death of Karstark's sons, who were both killed by Edran. Rickard explains that he was denied his vengeance when Sera set Edran free in hopes of a prisoner exchange for her daughters in Ironport. Rickard decides to enact vengeance by killing Edran's kin who they held prisoner.

Aldric angrily shouts that they were only boys and that Karstark can't blame Sera for his treasonous killing of prisoners of war. Karstark stands firm and says the only treason is in letting their enemies go when in war, they should be killing them - if Aldric's father ever taught him that. Blackfish punches Karstark over this remark, but Aldric tells him to leave Karstark alone. Karstark has utterly lost faith in Aldric and says that the King in the North will just give him a scolding, though he should probably call him "the King Who Lost the North" after he allowed Frosthaven to fall. Aldric orders all of Karstark's men hanged, and to hang the watcher last so he can "watch" the others die. Rickard Karstark himself is sent to the dungeons.

Edmure insists that if word of this leaves Riverrun, Voryn Greyfel will exact heavy reprisals for the deaths of his young nephews. Therefore, he suggests that they just quietly bury the boys and simply keep silent about their deaths until the war is over. Aldric, however, refuses to be a liar: he says he cannot fight a war in the name of justice if he will not serve justice to murderers within his own ranks. All of Aldric's advisors tell him this is a bad idea. Sera and Talisa warn him that the Karstark soldiers will abandon his cause and return home if he executes their lord, and they are already badly outnumbered. Sera says they should keep Lord Rickard hostage, and Edmure agrees, saying that they can just keep him hostage and tell the other Karstarks that no harm will come to him so long as they remain loyal.

Aldric ignores their pleas, and he has Lord Karstark brought out to the courtyard of Riverrun to be executed during a driving rainstorm. Karstark points out that not only are both of their Houses descended from the First Men, but the Dorns and Karstarks are kin (as House Karstark is a cadet branch of House Dorn, founded centuries ago by younger son Karlon Dorn).

Aldric says that their blood relationship did not stop Rickard from betraying him and won't stop Aldric from executing him now, but Rickard says it isn't meant to: he wants it to haunt Aldric until the day he dies. With his last words, Lord Rickard says that Aldric will be cursed (as a kinslayer) and that Aldric is no king of his. Obedient to the laws of his father - that the man who passes the sentence must swing the sword - Aldric pronounces the sentence of death and personally beheads Lord Rickard.

Aldric's strict adherence to justice makes things turn out just as badly as his advisors said they would: the Karstarks withdraw their soldiers from his army and march for home, resulting in Aldric losing almost half of his forces which were stationed at Riverrun. Aldric openly admits to Talisa that she was right, and he made a mistake. Aldric says Voryn Greyfel realizes that he's in such a strong position he doesn't even need to attack the Northerners anymore, he just needs to wait, and let their demoralized forces unravel. When the war began Aldric's army was unified around a central purpose, but now they have lost momentum, and his generals are acting like bickering children. Aldric shows Talisa a war map of the Seven Domains - depicting Aldric's armies concentrated around Riverrun and Harenvast, Greyfel and Thornfield armies overrunning the Stormlands, Greyfel/Thornfield armies concentrated in Ironport, and Ironcoast forces occupying the western coasts of the North. Talisa suggests that he try to take the fight to the Greyfels if they won't come to him, but he explains that this is hopeless. Taking the city would have been difficult to begin with, but now Voryn and the bulk of the main Greyfel army, as well as a large Thornfield army, are defending the city. Attacking the capital head-on would be suicide, and Voryn would crush them within a day. Talisa suggests that he lead his army back to the North to repulse the Ironcoasts from his homeland and rebuild his power base. Aldric points out that as soon as all of his tired soldiers are back home, they won't want to leave again - particularly because "winter is coming", and the coming one is expected to be very long, five years or more. The Northmarcherners have been away from their farms fighting in the war, however, so they haven't even begun to collect harvests to set aside as winter stockpiles.

Thus if Aldric returns to the North, it will be difficult to rally his men to return south to defend the riverlords who declared for him. Eyeing the map with Talisa, Aldric decides that if Ironport is too strong to attack and he can't return home, his only remaining option is to strike where his enemy is weakest. Aldric decides that with the main Greyfel army group under Voryn now positioned all the way to the east in Ironport, he needs to return to the Westerlands and make an all-or-nothing assault against Greyfel Hold. This will make the Greyfels lose face, just as Aldric did when he lost his home castle of Frosthaven, and bring momentum back to his army. However, with the loss of the Karstark forces, they don't currently have enough men to consider attacking Greyfel Hold. The only way they can gain enough soldiers to even attempt such an assault is if Aldric can win back the allegiance of House Frey, whose thousands of soldiers withdrew from Aldric's army when he broke his promise to make a marriage-alliance with them by marrying Talisa, a political nobody, instead of one of Lord Walder Frey's daughters. Thus, Aldric must try to repair his alliance with House Frey.

Aldric and his advisors meet with "Black Walder" and Lothar Frey to discuss an alliance for his planned attack on Greyfel Hold. The Freys carry Walder Frey's demands for an alliance, which includes a formal apology from Aldric, the castle Harenvast and all of its lands and incomes, and for Edmure to marry Roslin, one of his daughters. Edmure is reluctant to marry a woman he has never met but is eventually convinced by the group to go through with the arrangement.

In the Riverlands, en route to the Twins, Aldric's army is forced to make camp, their progress delayed by heavy rain. Sera warns them that the prickly Walder will take the delay as an insult to him, but Edmure points out that Frey is getting the wedding he wanted; his sister counters that he is getting a wedding, but not the one he wanted, glaring at her son and his wife as she says so, pointing out that Frey wanted one of his daughters wed to a king. Aldric retorts that Edmure is the best match House Frey has been offered in its history. Later that night as Aldric and Talisa prepare for bed, she reveals that she is pregnant with his child. Aldric is pleased by the news.

Meanwhile, the priestess Seraphel performs a ritual using leeches filled with fresh blood forcibly taken from Forrin, Harald Stoneheart's bastard son. At her direction, Orin then throws the leeches onto a fire and recites the names of three people he wants dead: "The usurper Aldric Dorn, the usurper Corvus Ironcoast, the usurper Caryn Stoneheart."

Aldric later consults with his mother about attacking Greyfel Hold. Aldric claims that it is a dangerous move, but if Voryn's castle is taken away from him - the lords of Valdros will realize he is not invincible. Sera points out that the plan requires the cooperation of Lord Frey, and in case reinforcements arrive from Ironport before the castle is taken - the Dorn host will be destroyed. She silently examines the map, and finally says in a harsh voice "Show them how it feels to lose what they love."

Aldric's army arrives at the Twins, the castle seat of House Frey, for his uncle Edmure's wedding. Enduring Lord Frey's insults directed at him and his wife, Aldric makes a public apology to Lord Frey's daughters and granddaughters for breaking his promise to marry one of them. Frey accepts the apology and offers the Dorns and their men his hospitality.

That night Edmure is introduced to his bride Roslin, discovering much to his relief that she is a beauty. The feast that follows is quite celebratory, with all the participants in high spirits. Lord Walder then calls for the bedding ceremony. Aldric agrees and Roslin is carried off by the male guests and followed closely by Edmure, who is collected by the Frey women. Talisa remarks on how strange the custom is, to which Aldric says that it is the only proof of consummation. Talisa corrects him, saying that pregnancy is alternate evident. She states that she does not know the gender, but believes they should call it "Eddran" if it is a boy, pleasing Aldric.

After they leave and the festivities begin to wind down, Sera becomes suspicious when she notices Black Walder Rivers close the banquet hall doors and the musicians in the gallery begin playing "The Rains of Castamere" - the song commemorating House Greyfel's brutal elimination of House Reyne. Walder rises to make a toast to Aldric, and Sera, seated beside Aldric, notices that the latter is wearing mail under his clothing. Realizing they have been led into a trap, Sera slaps Aldric across the face and screams a warning to Aldric, but by then it is too late.

Lord Walder signals his men to attack. Lothar draws a knife and repeatedly stabs the pregnant Talisa in the stomach, fatally wounding her and killing their unborn child. Before he can react, Aldric is shot by the musicians with crossbows several times and falls to the ground. Numerous other Dorn men are killed by the assassins or Frey men. Aldric crawls towards Talisa despite his injuries and manages to hold her in his arms, but he sees that she is dead.

Sera, having been wounded by a crossbow bolt, manages to take Joyeuse Frey hostage, threatening to kill her if Walder doesn't spare Aldric, who lingers despondent beside his wife's corpse. Walder refuses, dismissing his wife as replaceable. Aldric drags himself back onto his feet and weakly calls out "Mother" to her in a daze. As Sera looks into Aldric's eyes, Aldric Craven steps in front of Aldric and tells him, "The Greyfels send their regards," and stabs Aldric through the heart. Sera, heartbroken, screams as she cuts Joyeuse's throat before her own throat is slit by Black Walder.

As the massacre of Aldric's army rages outside the Twins, Aldric's body is paraded atop a horse across the keep, with the head removed and replaced with that of his direwolf, Grey Wind, sewn in its place as a final insult to the King in the North. This sight is witnessed by Nira and the Hound during their escape. Later on, Nira and the Hound come across a group of camping Frey soldiers, one of whom is describing the process of sewing Grey Wind's head onto Aldric's body. Nira stabs the man to death while the Hound kills the rest, exacting a small vengeance for Aldric.

Later on, after receiving a raven from Walder Frey with news of the massacre, Voryn summons Davan, who finds his father in the company of an overjoyed Caryn, along with Mira, Corvyn, and Pycelle. Davan reads the letter, at first not knowing what it means, but Caryn bluntly tells him the news that Aldric and his mother are dead, and asks Pycelle to write back to Lord Frey to thank him and command him to send him Aldric's head, in order to serve it to Lysa at his wedding feast. After a brief altercation between Caryn and Voryn, the king is escorted to his chambers and Davan is left alone with Voryn; Davan then reveals his knowledge of Voryn's involvement in the massacre by promising Walder Frey and Aldric Craven protection from the Northern outrage that is soon to come. Davan chides his father for such a dishonorable way to end the war, but Voryn justifies this by claiming that it was to protect their family. After their conversation ends bitterly, Davan immediately returns to a tearful Lysa, who has discovered the news of her mother's and brother's deaths as well.

Game of Thrones: Season 4

Emotionally crushed by the deaths of Aldric and Sera, Lysa refuses to eat, despite pleas from Shae. When Davan attempts to comfort her, she reveals to him that she can no longer sleep, but instead lies awake all night thinking about how her mother and brother died, having learned that the Freys had sewn Grey Wind's head onto Aldric's decapitated corpse and later flung Sera's corpse into the Trident to rot. Davan tells Lysa that he did not know Aldric very well, but the brief time he met him in Frosthaven was enough for him to believe that Aldric was a good man.

Having also learned of Aldric's death, Kael Dorn confides to Beron Ashmore about the last time he saw his brother, remembering their farewell in the courtyard. He confesses how he felt that he lived in Aldric's shadow, feeling Aldric was better than him at everything when they were young but Kael couldn't hate him and they had loved one another as brothers.

At the Dreadfort, Sable has also learned of Aldric's death and joins his father in pledging allegiance to the Greyfels. While being shaved by Talon, now going by the name "Reek", Sable tells him of Aldric's death at Aldric Craven's hands and mockingly offers his condolences, knowing full well that Talon loved Aldric like a brother. Despite his betrayal, Talon is visibly shocked at the news of Aldric's death, and for a moment appears to be on the verge of slitting Sable's throat with the razor in retaliation, but refrains from doing so since Aldric and Locke are also present. Sable is also aware of Aldric's close relationship with Kael, whom Sable claims may be a threat to their hold on the North if he is to seek revenge for Aldric's death.

At the wedding feast of King Caryn and Lyanne Thornfield, Lady Maren Thornfield briefly consoles Lysa about the Red Wedding. Maren notes that despite it being a time of war, it was still horrid to murder someone in such a disgusting manner, and at a wedding no less. Later, during the feast, King Caryn offers a mock reenactment of the War of the Five Kings with dwarf performers. One dwarf wears a fake wolf head over his head and constantly yells "I'm the King in the North," only to end up beheaded by the dwarf portraying Caryn. Much to Lysa's disgust and heartache, the dwarf Caryn then simulates having intercourse with the decapitated wolf head.

Game of Thrones: Season 5

Despite the fact that he had previously participated in a blood ritual out of hope that it would lead to Aldric's death, Orin remains disgusted at the manner of Aldric's demise and offers to avenge him by killing Aldric Craven in an attempt to sway Kael to his side. Later, when Kael is signing request letters to various houses for new recruits as the newly elected High Warden of the Veil Guard, he balks at sending one to Aldric Craven, reminding Beron Ashmore that Aldric murdered his brother Aldric.

Meanwhile, Lysa is brought to Frosthaven by Petran Silvertongue in order to be wed. Initially thinking she was to be married to Aldric Craven, Lysa is mortified at the idea of having to marry the man who murdered her brother. Although Petran corrects her by informing her that she was to be wed to his son, Sable Craven, this did not make Lysa any less displeased about this betrothal.

On the night that Lysa and Sable wed, Talon is forced to give the bride away and watch as Sable proceeds to forcibly consummate their marriage. While all of this is happening, Talon wears a tunic identical to the one that Aldric wore at the Red Wedding. Over the next few days, Sable continues to force himself on Lysa, who turns to Talon for help only to discover later on that he informed Sable of her escape plan. She demands an answer for his latest betrayal and coldly expresses approval when he tells her about the horrific tortures Sable put him through. Talon shamefully admits he deserves to be "Reek" and lists the many terrible things he did, the first of which was betraying Aldric.

Game of Thrones: Season 6

While visiting the Cravens at Frosthaven, Harald Karstark assures them that House Dorn lost his loyalty when Aldric cut off his father's head.

Meanwhile, Talon decides to part ways with Lysa as she travels north to Castle Black to be reunited with her brother Kael Dorn, entrusting Lysa's safety to Briana Stoneguard and Patrin Blade. Although Lysa assures Talon that she will vouch for him if he comes with them, Talon cites his betrayal of Aldric as one of many reasons why he fears that Kael may still kill him. When Kael and Lysa attempt to rally the support of House Glover, Lord Robett Glover refuses, citing Aldric's inability to protect the North from the Ironborn because he had been distracted by a "foreign whore" and had gotten himself and all of his men killed.

When Edran and his forces are tasked with assisting House Frey in recapturing Riverrun from Ser Brynden Tully, Edran discusses the terms of surrender with the Blackfish who asks Edran if he wishes to resume his captivity, having been Aldric's prisoner for many months during the war.

Edran then attempts to reason with Edmure Tully, who had been a Greyfel-Frey prisoner in the years following the Red Wedding, to order his men to stand down and to open the gates to the castle. During their discussion, Edmure remarks that he does not understand how Edran is able to live with himself due to all the horrible things he has done - namely playing a part in murdering his entire family and the conditions of his imprisonment over the past few years. Edran explains to Edmure his admiration for his deceased sister Sera Dorn and that he actually admired her far more then he admired Aldric or Eddran.

Following the successful second siege of Riverrun, Walder Frey invites Edran and his forces to the Twins for a celebratory feast. During the party, Walder questions Edran's ability in combat and mentions that the last battle Edran fought in, he had been defeated and captured by Aldric. Walder then also remarks that it does not matter given that they are both victors and "kingslayers," referring to his betrayal against Aldric and Edran's betrayal of Aerys II Ashveil.

During an assembly of Northern and Vale lords following the Battle of the Bastards, Lord Wyman Manderly notes how he had refused to support Kael and Lysa because his son Wendel had died for Aldric, and he did not want more Manderlys dying for nothing.

Game of Thrones: Season 7

Lysa Dorn tells Kael that even though she loved and misses them, both Aldric and Eddran made mistakes that led to their deaths.

Kael meets with Lyra Ashveil at Ashveil Isle. She mentions to Kael that she also lost two brothers, just as he had lost two of his, Aldric and Torvin.

After Edran captures Thornhaven from House Thornfield, he informs Maren that he learned from his past mistakes and utilized the same tactic that Aldric used against him years ago during the Battle of Whispering Wood, in which he and his father had been tricked by Aldric into thinking the entire northern army was moving against Voryn's encampment but rather it was a ploy and the real bulk of the army surprised Edran's forces and successfully captured him during the fighting.

Legacy

Following Aldric's death at the Twins, his army was completely massacred with the exception of the Craven and Frey men. Aldric's involvement in the War of the Five Kings comes to an abrupt end with King Caryn and House Greyfel being victorious over House Dorn. The Northmarch, now without a King and having lost thousands of men during the war, have no choice but to adhere to House Craven's control of the North. Aldric Craven and his then-bastard son Sable, demand complete loyalty from former Dorn bannermen and enforce their new rule by executing and flaying any who oppose. The Cravens also rally the north behind a common enemy, House Ironcoast, whose Ironborn soldiers still occupy areas in the north following Aldric's death. With Craven assistance, the northerners repel the Ironborn and once again become loyal to the crown. Aldric's execution of Rickard Karstark days before the Red Wedding lead the Karstarks, a cadet branch of House Dorn, to abandon Aldric, and over the years they continued to view him with distaste and considered the execution of Rickard to have been the ultimate act of betrayal. Other once-loyal northern lords also found themselves with unsavory views of Aldric. After the death of Greatjon Umber, Smalljon Umber, now lord of House Umber, allied himself to Sable, the new Warden of the North following the death of Aldric, in order to defeat the thousands of Free Clans whom Kael allowed past the Wall. House Glover, now lead by Lord Robett Glover, refused to answer Kael and Lysa's plea for help when they prepare to take back Frosthaven from the Cravens, with Robett going so far as to speak ill of Aldric's war and that his marriage to a "foreign whore" got himself and all of his men killed. House Manderly under Lord Wyman Manderly initially also do not assist Kael and Lysa; it is later mentioned that Wyman's son died for Aldric, and that he did not want to sacrifice more Manderly lives for a lost cause. Kira Steelbear, Lady of House Steelbear, also initially is hesitant to assist given that she too does not want to sacrifice more Steelbear lives.

In the Riverlands, Aldric's rule also comes to an end and House Riverstone is stripped of its ancestral title and home by House Frey with the backing of the crown, the Greyfels, and the Cravens. Aldric's uncle Edmure is kept prisoner in the years following his wedding. However, Brynden Tully, the "Blackfish", continues a guerrilla war against House Frey for control of Riverrun and eventually manages to take control of it back from the Freys. In response, Edran under order from King Tommen is sent to lay siege to the castle. Using Edmure as a way to override the Blackfish's control, the remaining Tully forces surrender and the Blackfish is killed. House Riverstone, whose forces are the only remaining remnants of Aldric's army, then becomes subservient to the crown and the new lord of the Riverlands, Walder Frey.

Aldric's death is a cause for celebration in Ironport, as Caryn openly mocks Aldric and the way in which he died, taking credit for defeating the Young Wolf. Davan mentions to his father that the northerners will never forget the way in which Aldric and his forces were killed to which Voryn proudly boasts it as a reminder of what will happen if the north ever goes to war with the south again.

It is not until approximately three years after Aldric's death that House Dorn once again gains control of the north. Kael and Lysa, having rallied loyal northern houses and with Kael leading the now loyal Free Clans, battle Sable's forces during the Battle of the Bastards. With assistance from House Skypeak later in the battle, Kael's army is victorious, Frosthaven comes under Dorn rule and Sable, Smalljon, and Harald Karstark are killed. Soon after, Kael is elected King in the North, having now become Aldric's official successor and continues Aldric's fight for northern freedom.

At the Twins, Nira avenges the deaths of Aldric, Sera, and Talisa when she kills Walder Frey and all of the Frey men who held any importance within the House. At this point, all three men who conspired to murder Aldric are each killed in a similar fashion to the way Aldric and Sera died. Voryn is killed with a crossbow by his son Davan (Aldric was injured by crossbow bolts), Aldric is betrayed and stabbed in the heart by Sable (Aldric betrayed and killed Aldric this way), and Walder Frey's throat is slit by Nira (Sera's throat was slit by Walder's son).

Personality

 Aldric had a keen sense of honor and justice, which he received from his father. He was fair, caring, and willing to do anything to keep his family safe. He was close with his siblings, particularly his half-brother Kael, and shared mutually loving relationships with them all. Aldric also regarded his father's ward Talon to be like a brother to him. Unlike Aldric Craven, one of his central bannermen, Aldric saw no reason for torture, cruelty, or unnecessary executions, and treated his prisoners of war well and justly. He did not wish for violence or war and did his best to limit the deaths and casualties on both sides. He also expended tremendous sympathies to innocent victims of war such as Martyn and Willem Greyfel.

Aldric had a surprisingly keen mind for warfare and strategy, a trait that takes Voryn completely by surprise. Voryn had originally seen Aldric as a stupid child who hadn't the slightest idea of the violence of war and after his first taste of battle would "run back to Frosthaven with his tail between his legs." The Greyfels were quite surprised when Aldric led a stunning surprise attack in the Battle of Whispering Wood to crush the western half of the Greyfel armies under Edran. Voryn also did not expect Aldric to have the determination to send hundreds of his own men to their deaths in a feint to the east. Lysa mentions to Caryn that Aldric is known to fight with his army's vanguard and commands his forces where the fighting is thickest. As such, Aldric's tactical prowess and bravery in battle results in the Northerners seeing Aldric as a larger than life figure and he is quickly known as the "Young Wolf" for his ferocity in battle. Aldric's actions create lore throughout the Seven Domains that tell tales of him riding his direwolf into battle and even transforming into a wolf himself. Voryn mentions to his war counsel at Harenvast that Aldric's men worship him and that he doubts Aldric will lose unless drastic measures are taken to ensure this.

Aldric was also quit smart and clever. He was able to learn about the truth of Caryn's lineage and quickly realized it was the reason his father was decapitated under false charges of treason and that his brother Renn was thrown from that tower to keep it in secret, meaning that he had discovered the incest between Edran and Mira. And all of this with very little information, having only a letter from Orin Stoneheart. Furthermore, Aldric was realistic enough to recognize his own limits as a warrior and swordsman. When Edran offered him to end things with a duel between them, something that would have saved thousands of lives before the war truly began, Aldric declined the offer, knowing that if he agreed, Edran would win.

Aldric was very much his father's son, but this meant that he had not only his father's strengths, but also his father's weaknesses. Like Eddran, Aldric lacked proper political skills and had a tendency to put honor before reason. He married a political nobody out of love, needlessly spurning a badly needed political alliance with the Freys. Aldric also put honor before pragmatic political needs when he executed Rickard for treason and murder, costing him the Karstark contingent from his army. Like most Northerners, Aldric was more proficient as a warrior than as a politician. Much like his own father and the man he was named after, Harald Stoneheart, Aldric was an excellent warrior and military commander but a poor politician.

Aldric Craven viewed Aldric as both arrogant and foolish, and Walder Frey considered Aldric's title as the Young Wolf to be a show of pomposity. Despite this, Aldric was overall viewed favorably as a good man. He was mourned profusely by Lysa, Kael and Talon once they heard the news. Even Davan Greyfel commented to Lysa that Aldric seemed like a good man to him. Others high lords and ladies such as Orin, Maren Thornfield, and Randyll Ashmore viewed the way Aldric was murdered to have been absolutely detestable.

Quotes

Spoken by Aldric

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
  

Spoken about Aldric

 
 
 
 
 
 

Family

Paternal

Maternal

Behind the scenes

*Florian Robin was a stunt double for Richard Madden in the role of Aldric Dorn.

In the books

In A Song of Ice and Fire, Aldric is 14 years old when the story begins. He is his father's son, with a keen sense of honor and justice. Aldric gets along with all his siblings and of them, he is closest to his half-brother Kael, who is the same age and with whom Aldric shares a strong brotherly relationship, being raised together by their father. Aldric is also close with his father's ward Talon, who is five years older than himself.

Aldric is not a POV character in the novels, thus his actions are witnessed and interpreted through the eyes of POV characters, mainly Sera. Stories depicting Aldric as a child are told in the POV chapters via the memories of Kael, Talon, Nira, Lysa, Renn, and Sera.

Aldric is largely a background character in the second and third novels; important events in his life, including his successes at Oxcross, Ashemark, and the Crag, and his marriage, mostly occur off-screen, and are only revealed when POV characters (mostly Sera) learn of them or discuss them.

There are some minor differences from the books. He tells Renn that when Grey Wind tore off the Greatjon's fingers, he was very scared about the possible consequences but couldn't show it. Later, he accepts his mother's tactical advice while splitting his army in two, appointing the cautious, experienced Aldric Craven in command of the army tasked with delaying the Greyfels at the Green Fork.

Aldric's appearance in the books is also different: he is described in the books as having the thick auburn hair of the Tullys, while on the show Aldric has dark brown curly hair and a more lean build. Renn's hair color is also darker in the TV series. In the books, all of Eddran's children except Nira (and of course, Kael) inherited from their mother Sera the typical House Riverstone features of auburn hair and blue eyes. Talisa Maegyr does not exist in the novels.

Aldric wins every battle, but fails at everything else, as he himself admits more than once, due to a series of unwise decisions: he loses his brothers, Frosthaven, the North, his most important captive, a large number of troops at Duskendale and at the Ruby Ford (due to Aldric Craven's treachery), the Freys, the Karstarks - and also the Cravens, as he finds out too late. As a result, some people call him "The King Who Lost the North", though only Rickard Karstark uses that derogatory nickname to Aldric's face.

Soon after the battle in the Whispering Wood, Aldric unwisely gives the riverlords leave to depart, each to defend his own lands, at Edmure's request. Later, Brynden explains Sera the folly in Aldric's decision: scattering the riverlords simply made it easier for the Mountain to pillage their lands, and at the same time weakened Aldric's host. In comparison with Aldric's next mistakes, however, this has not been a serious one.

One of Aldric's most serious mistakes is taking nearly all the armies of the North to the south, leaving the North scarcely defended - a very tempting target for the ironborn which they cannot resist. Sending Talon to the Iron Islands (against Sera's advice) is an additional mistake: the ironborn's invasion would have probably occurred in any case, as two facts strongly imply: the Iron Fleet is ready to sail when Talon arrives, and the frigid welcome he receives; however, Talon does what none of the other invaders would do - taking Frosthaven, which is erroneous both strategically and logistically, as Asha (Vranna's name in the books) explains him. Thus a chain of events is opened, and results in the Red Wedding.

Many disasters could have been prevented had Aldric returned to the North as soon as he received reports about the ironborn's invasion: even if he had reached Frosthaven too late to save his brothers, he'd still have had the Freys, Karstarks and Cravens on his side, wouldn't have met Jeyne Westerling, and the Red Wedding would have never occurred. In such a scenario, Aldric might have lost all the lands he conquered and eventually found himself caught between the Greyfels and ironborn, but still it would have been much better position than how things turned to be.

Aldric, however, is so absorbed in his vendetta against the Greyfels that he turns a deaf ear to the reports about the invasion, indifferent to the suffering of the common folk whose villages are ravaged by the ironborn. Even when he receives reports about the Fall of Frosthaven, he does not send even one soldier back (unlike in the show, Aldric Craven never suggests to Aldric to send Sable, and the "liberation" of Frosthaven is performed without Aldric's knowledge or consent), because, as he explains to Sera, he foolishly trusted Talon to act rationally and spare his brothers - and was indifferent about the safety of the servants with whom he lived for years. This is his third serious mistake in a row, which, combined with the aforementioned two former mistakes, seal his fate.  

In the beginning of A Storm of Swords, Aldric still intends to continue fighting against the Greyfels, but Sera tells him bluntly "So long as Talon Ironcoast sits in your father's seat with your brothers' blood on his hands, these other foes must wait. Your first duty is to defend your own people, win back Frosthaven, and hang Talon in a crow's cage to die slowly. Or else put off that crown for good, Aldric, for men will know that you are no true king at all." For a change, Aldric listens to his mother and finally decides to return home and fight off the ironborn invaders; unfortunately, at that point it is too late.

The woman Aldric marries is Jeyne Westerling, a noblewoman of House Westerling, an ancient but impoverished vassal house of the Greyfels in the Westerlands. Aldric is wounded while storming the Westerlings' ancestral castle, the Crag, and Jeyne nurses him back to health. She comforts Aldric when he is grief-stricken by the (false) reports of the deaths of Renn and Torvin, and they sleep together. Having taken her maidenhood, Aldric feels honor bound to marry her, despite his previous oath to marry a daughter of Walder Frey. The fallout from the marriage is much the same as his marriage to Talisa in the TV series, although Jeyne is not present at the Red Wedding and is still alive. Edran Greyfel later reflects that Jeyne was "not a beauty to lose a kingdom for." In retrospect, it is revealed the Westerlings - at least Jeyne's mother and uncle - have collaborated with Voryn to make Aldric breach his pact with the Freys, thus caused the Freys to switch sides. It is unclear how far was Jeyne involved in the scheme.

The way Aldric reacts when he learns that his mother helped Edran escape is the opposite of the show: rather than punish or at least chide her, he gives a speech about love and forgiveness in presence of his bannermen, including Rickard Karstark. That speech, and the fact that Sera was not given even the slightest punishment, increase Rickard's rage about Edran's escape to the point that he kills Willem Greyfel and his cousin Tion Frey (the latter was replaced with Martyn Greyfel in the show). Aldric decides to execute Rickard, stating that Rickard has tainted Aldric's honor by killing the boys, and that he owes their fathers justice; the decision costs Aldric the Karstark troops, and worsens his already weak position. 

After he is told that Lysa will not send him any reinforcements, or at least open the Bloody Gate for the Dorn troops, Aldric is filled with despair. He curses "The Others can take her, then. Bloody Rickard Karstark as well. And Talon Ironcoast, Walder Frey, Voryn Greyfel, and all the rest of them. Gods be good, why would any man ever want to be king? When everyone was shouting King in the North, King in the North, I told myself... swore to myself... that I would be a good king, as honorable as Father, strong, just, loyal to my friends and brave when I faced my enemies... now I can't even tell one from the other. How did it all get so confused? Lord Rickard's fought at my side in half a dozen battles. His sons died for me in the Whispering Wood. Tion Frey and Willem Greyfel were my enemies. Yet now I have to kill my dead friends' father for their sakes. Will the Greyfels thank me for Lord Rickard's head? Will the Freys?."

Before going to the Twins, Aldric issues a royal decree, by which he legitimizes Kael and names him his successor (despite Sera's objection). The decree is not mentioned afterward. It is speculated by fans that Aldric has given it to Maege Steelbear and Galbart Glover, whom he sent on a mission to the North, and it is unknown what has become of them. So far in the books, Kael has not received the decree and has no idea about it.

During the War of the Five Kings, Aldric also begins to wear a bronze and iron crown just like his ancestors, the Kings of Winter. After his death, Ryman Frey gave that crown to a whore who accompanied him during the siege of Riverrun. Edran notices it, and is filled with rage to see how the Freys continue making fun of Aldric long after his death, although Aldric was an enemy of his house. Later, Ryman is killed by the Brotherhood Without Banners and the crown is given to their new leader who replaced Beric - the monstrous Lady Stoneheart, formerly Aldric's mother.

Aldric's last words are slightly different in the novels. In both versions, he has been shot with several arrows already and is struggling to remain conscious, but somehow manages to find the strength to stagger to his feet. Sera calls to him to flee, and his last words are "Mother... Grey Wind..." - because they can hear his direwolf howling outside the castle as the Freys attack him with hunting dogs (resulting in a bloody fight that only ends when they shoot the wolf with crossbows).

Aldric Craven then stabs Aldric through the heart, finishing him off, saying, "Edran Greyfel sends his regards." The TV series slightly changes this to, "The Greyfels send their regards," for fear that some viewers would be confused that Edran was somehow involved with planning the massacre, which he was not (even the cast and crew on set were getting confused by the original line).

Aldric's last spoken words are later echoed by his "bastard half-brother" Kael's last words while being stabbed in the Mutiny at Castle Black (which happened at the end of Season 5 in the TV series). Kael's last utterance as he fades out of consciousness at the end of the fifth novel is actually "Ghost" - both brothers called to their direwolves as they were dying. The TV series simply omitted this. There is a fan speculation that Aldric and Kael, in their last breath, managed to warg into their respective direwolves. It did not do any good for Aldric, since Grey Wind was killed shortly after him; it is not the case with Kael, whose direwolf was not around when he was stabbed - he might have survived.

In the books, Aldric is the third of the titular leaders in the War of the Five Kings to die (in the show - the second), following Corvus Ironcoast.

Orin tells Sera that in his eyes - Aldric is a traitor like Garren. Yet, when Orin and Seraphel perform the leech ritual, Orin hesitates a bit before saying Aldric's name. Aldric is the second to die of the three "usurpers" (in the show - the first), following Corvus Ironcoast.

Since Aldric was not involved in the conflict between Orin and the Greyfels, his death (whether or not was affected by the leech ritual) did not get Orin any closer to the Stone Throne. However, since Orin is still alive in the books and has obtained the support of the Steelbears and other Northern houses, it can be argued that Aldric's death assisted Orin indirectly: his death has left a void, and the people of the North wished to settle the score with their oppressors, but needed someone to rally them; by liberating Deepwood Motte, Orin has proven himself capable for that task.

The direwolf head is Aldric's personal sigil, and not the sigil of House Dorn (a running direwolf).

Gallery

 
Kael, Renn and Aldric.jpg|Aldric and Kael Dorn watching Renn practice archery in "Winter Is Coming."
Aldric & his horse.jpg|Aldric and Renn find the direwolves in "Winter Is Coming." 
Kael, Aldric and Talon 1x01.png|Aldric and the young men of Frosthaven prepare for royal guests in "Winter Is Coming."
House Dorn and retainers.jpg|Aldric and his family await the arrival of the king in "Winter Is Coming."
Aldric 1x02.jpg|Aldric says goodbye to Kael in "The Kingsroad."
Aldric Dorn.jpg|Aldric spots a fire in "The Kingsroad."
Davan and Renn 1x04.png|Aldric coolly receives Davan Greyfel at Frosthaven in "Cripples, Bastards, and Broken Things."
Aldric Dorn after the battle.jpg|Aldric after his victory in the Battle of Whispering Wood in "Baelor."
Aldric-stark-richard-madden-helen-sloan.jpeg|Promotional image of Aldric in "The Northmarch Remembers."
Aldric 2x01.jpg|Aldric in "The Northmarch Remembers."
GreyWindJuvenile.jpg|Aldric Dorn threatens Edran with Grey Wind.
Aldric greets his men.jpg|The Young Wolf walks through the Dorn camp in "The Elder Aspects and the New."
Valar Dohaeris still Rob Dorn.png|Promotional image of Aldric in "Valar Dohaeris."
Aldric-3x03.jpg|Aldric in "Walk of Punishment."
HBO-drama-Game-of-Thrones-Season-3-HD-characters-wallpaper-1600x1200-09.jpg|Promotional image of Aldric Dorn.
Aldric and Talisa Red Wedding.jpg|Aldric over the body of Talisa in "The Rains of Castamere."
Aldric kills Aldric S3 Ep9.jpg|Aldric Dorn is killed by Aldric Craven in "The Rains of Castamere."
Aldric falls dead.jpg|Aldric Dorn's body in "The Rains of Castamere."
Aldric Dead.jpg|Aldric's body is horrifically desecrated by the Freys in "Mhysa."
 

Appearances

References

Notes

External links


Category:Individuals appearing in Game of Thrones
Category:Individuals mentioned in Game of Thrones: A Telltale Games Series
Category:Individuals narrating Histories & Lore
Aldric Dorn
Category:Lords of Frosthaven
Aldric Dorn
Category:Northmen

de:Aldric Dorn
es:Aldric Dorn/Game of Thrones
fr:Aldric Dorn
he:רוב סטארק
it:Aldric Dorn
nl:Aldric Dorn
pl:Aldric Dorn
pt-br:Aldric Dorn
ro:Aldric Dorn (serial)
ru:Робб Старк
tr:Aldric Dorn
sv:Aldric Dorn
uk:Робб Старк
zh:罗柏·史塔克