{{Character


Beron, born Beron Ashmore, and often called Beron, is Kael Dorn's closest friend, the eldest son of Lord Randyll Ashmore and Lady Melessa Ashmore of Horn Hill, and the older brother of Dickon and Talla Ashmore. Eventually he becomes the new Grand Archivist.

Biography

Background

Beron Ashmore is the oldest son and former heir of Lord Randyll Ashmore, the head of House Ashmore. House Ashmore is one of the most powerful noble families in the Reach, and sworn to House Thornfield. By rights, Beron would have grown up to be one of the top ranking lords of the Seven Domains.

Randyll, one of the most skilled military commanders in Valdros, hoped for a son who would carry on his legacy and lead House Ashmore into battle. Much to his dismay, his firstborn turned out to be an overweight scholarly-minded boy with no thirst for violence. Randyll, ashamed of his son, forced Beron to take the black under threat of death in order to disinherit him (though it is unknown if Randyll would really have done this). Beron departed for the Wall, leaving his younger brother Dickon as heir to House Ashmore.HBO viewers guide, season 2 guide to houses, Veil Guard - Beron Ashmore entry 

Beron was a virgin when he left for the Wall, and is a bit despondent about the restriction that his vows forbid him from ever taking a wife in the future.

Game of Thrones: Season 1

Beron Ashmore arrives at Castle Black. Ser Alliser Thorne identifies him as a soft, pampered lordling and has the other recruits attack him harshly, mockingly calling him "Lady Piggy". To Alliser's annoyance, Kael Dorn defends Beron. Beron is assigned watches with Kael. He tells Kael that he is craven and that his father forced him to come to the Wall or face a 'hunting accident' that would result in his death. Kael convinces the other recruits to go easy on Beron, even using Ghost to intimidate Rast into doing so. Beron befriends Pypar and Grenn.

Thorne is furious at Kael's actions and confronts him and Beron. He tells them of the harsh conditions that exist beyond the Wall and claims men are driven to do terrible things to survive out there, especially in winter. He says that by avoiding the harsh discipline of the Veil Guard, they are condemning themselves to death.

After the trainees are named men of the Veil Guard and Beron is assigned to the stewards, specifically to the service of Archivist Aemon. When Kael complains about his appointment as a steward to High Warden Jeor Steelbear, Beron points out that Steelbear could be grooming him for command. Beron, feeling that his own gods have abandoned him, elects to say his oath to the Watch before a heart tree like Kael, hoping that the Elder Aspects would answer his prayers in a way that the Seven never did. After the ceremony, they are surprised when Ghost arrives, carrying a severed hand in his mouth.

The hand leads them to the bodies of two rangers. They bring the corpses back to Castle Black and Beron notes that there is no smell of rotten flesh on them. The High Warden orders the bodies examined, and tells Beron that he may be a coward, but certainly not stupid.

Kael Dorn and the High Warden are attacked by one of the dead, who has risen as a wight. Kael dispatches the wight and Beron watches as the two corpses are burned. Beron tells the others that he has read an old book that claimed that reviving the dead can only be achieved by the touch of the Frost Wraiths, who sleep for thousands of years beneath the ice. When the others ask what will happen when they wake up, he only says that he hopes that the Wall is high enough. Beron admires Kael's new sword, Longclaw, given as a gift for defending the High Warden. Beron tries, unsuccessfully, to stop Kael leaving the Wall when he receives news of his father's execution in Ironport. He then convinces Pyp and Grenn to help him to pursue Kael. He is knocked off his horse by a low hanging branch which draws Kael back to check if he is okay. Beron stands, unharmed, and recites his vows with his friends to convince Kael to return.

Game of Thrones: Season 2

Beron is part of High Warden Jeor Steelbear's great ranging beyond the Wall. After traveling for months and passing several abandoned wildling villages they reach Craster's Keep. Craster is an unsavory ally of the Watch who marries his daughters and apparently has no sons. Craster tells them that the wildlings are gathering under King-Beyond-the-Wall Mance Rayder.

Beron calls off Ghost, Kael's direwolf, when he comes near Gilly, one of Craster's wives. Gilly calls Beron brave. Beron takes her to Kael for help rescuing her unborn child from Craster but Kael refuses to disobey their orders to stay away from Craster's wives. Kael later follows Craster into the woods and sees him leaving a newborn boy for the Frost Wraiths. Craster spots him and incapacitates him. Craster drags Kael back to his keep and demands that the Watch leave. Beron becomes infatuated with Gilly, vowing to return and rescue her.

They march to the Fist of the First Men and Beron is amazed at the ancient fortification. Beron assumes Kael's responsibilities as steward to the High Warden so that Kael can accompany Qhorin Halfhand scouting the Skirling Pass. The party does not return and are believed dead but Beron refuses to give up hope. He finds a cache of Frostglass weapons buried at the Fist while working with Grenn and Edd.

While collecting dung for fuel, the companions hear three horn blasts, signalling Frost Wraiths. In a panic, they rush back to the Fist, but the slower Beron is left behind after tripping in the snow. As an eerie blizzard rolls in, Beron takes shelter behind a rock. He watches as armed wights and Frost Wraiths approach out of the snow. A Frost Wraith mounted on a dead horse notices Beron, but appears to ignore him, ordering the wights towards the Fist.

Game of Thrones: Season 3

After the fight at the Fist, Beron is wandering in the blizzard looking for shelter. He suddenly notices another man of the Veil Guard. When he walks toward him, he discovers the man has been decapitated. A wight then approaches Beron, about to attack him. The direwolf Ghost knocks the wight down and rips out its flesh as it drags towards Beron. Finally, the wight is lit on fire by High Warden Jeor Steelbear and the last remaining Veil Guard of the fight appeared. Steelbear is angry that Beron didn't send any ravens in the confusion of the attack of the Frost Wraiths. Finally, Steelbear announces that they should retreat to the Wall and warn about the Frost Wraiths to the others in Castle Black and the rest of Valdros.

High Warden Jeor Steelbear of the Veil Guard leads the few survivors of the slaughter at the fight at the Fist south in hope of reaching the Wall. Beron Ashmore is exhausted and collapses. Rast is annoyed that Beron hid during the battle, and thinks they should leave him because he's slowing them down. Beron is upset that Grenn and Edd abandoned him at the start of the attack, although they refuse to leave him now. Steelbear tells Beron that he has to keep moving, and sternly forbids Beron to die. Steelbear orders Rast to keep Beron alive until they reach the Wall on pain of death.

Farther south beyond the Wall, High Warden Jeor Steelbear leads the ragged survivors of the Veil Guard expedition to Craster's Keep. Craster mocks the survivors of the fight when they reach his Keep. He initially wants to refuse them shelter until he notices some of them stroking their weapons. Fearful that in desperation they might try to rush him, he relents. As the black brothers warm by his hearth, Craster mocks them. Craster insists that the black brothers should be grateful for his generosity, and that he is a "godly man" for helping them. Steelbear tensely questions that he is a godly man, but Craster insists that he is - to the "real gods", the Frost Wraiths, who consume entire armies on their way to the Wall but will spare Craster for his loyalty.

He admits that he's feeding his pigs better than them - as pigs are valuable to him - and half-seriously suggests to his guests that they should eat the fat Beron Ashmore. He is also annoyed by Gilly's loud wailing from birthing pains. Beron leaves the main house to a birthing hut where he witnesses Gilly giving birth with the aid of a few other women. To her horror, the baby is a boy. Beron and Gilly realize that Craster will want to sacrifice him to the Frost Wraiths.

Beron Ashmore visits Gilly, who is deeply distraught about the impending fate of her newborn son. She is frantic, and yells at Beron not to draw attention to the fact that it's a boy by calling it a "he" so loud, as Craster will want to offer it up as a sacrifice when he finds out it is a son. He asks her if she has decided on a name, but she responds that there's no point in naming her baby if he's only going to be offered up as a human sacrifice. She gives Beron back his mother's thimble and says she doesn't care about such stupid things, all she is focused on is protecting the life of her baby.

When the traitors of the Veil Guard kill Craster and Jeor Steelbear, Beron rushes to Gilly's hut and orders her that they have to escape now or they never will. Beron runs out of Craster's Keep with Gilly and her baby, as loyal Veil Guard members fall to the mutineers, who also kill and/or rape Craster's other wives. Gilly leads the way into the night because she knows the woods around her home. Covered in Steelbear's blood, Rast shouts into the darkness that "Piggy" can run for now, but he'll soon be cutting Beron's throat too.

Beron and Gilly stop to camp during their journey to the Wall, after having fled Craster's Keep. Beron shows Gilly the Frostglass dagger he found at the Fist of the First Men and tells her about Castle Black. Gilly wonders if Beron can sing, the he tells her that he can't sing well. However, he knew one song and starts to sing it for Gilly and her baby.

On their way to Castle Black, they take refuge in a destroyed cabin next to a heart tree. Before they enter, two crows land on a branch on the heart tree, and begin to squawk loudly. Later that night, Beron tries to light a fire. When he is unable to, Gilly does it instead. Meanwhile, Beron suggests that Gilly name her son, but she does not know any boy names, Beron gives her some examples, and also explains the difference between first and last names.

Suddenly, they are interrupted by the loud squawks of the crows. Beron and Gilly go outside to investigate, and see hundreds of crows angrily squawking at them. Gilly is then horrified to see a Frost Wraith approaching them, and knows that it is after her child. Beron tries to halt its advance, but the Walker shatters his sword with his bare hand and knocks him aside, and heads for Gilly and her baby (unbeknown to them both, Craster had made an arrangement with the Frost Wraiths that his male offspring would be added to their numbers after being turned by the Pale Lord).

Beron staggers back to his feet, pulls out his Frostglass dagger, and attacks the Walker, stabbing it in the back. The Walker howls in pain, as its whole body begins to freeze from the point at which he was stabbed It falls to its knees and shatters, leaving nothing behind but white dust and the dagger. Leaving behind the dagger, Beron takes Gilly's arm, and runs as the crows chase after them.

Following their encounter with the Frost Wraith, Beron and Gilly continued their journey south to Castle Black. While they were still a considerable distance from their destination, Beron knew that they were approaching Nightfort, the original headquarters of the Veil Guard which was located between Castle Black and Beyond the Veil. Nightfort had been abandoned centuries ago when the Veil Guard's numbers dwindled.

Beron explained to Gilly that he planned to get them across the Wall using a secret sally-port which would lead right into the Nightfort. Gilly expressed her amazement that Beron knew so much history just from reading books, insisting that he is a wizard much to Beron's delight, since Beron had a childhood dream to be a wizard, giving him a sense of nostalgia. When they finally caught a glimpse of the Wall, which Gilly had never seen before, she is awestruck.

Later, Beron and Gilly finally arrived at the Nightfort. There, he encountered Renn Dorn, Kael's younger half-brother and his companions-Borran, Jojen and Meera Reed, and his direwolf Summer-who were traveling north beyond the Wall to find the Three-Eyed Harbinger. Renn and his companions initially mistook him for an intruder but sheltered them after seeing Gilly and her baby. Beron, noticing the gigantic Borran and Summer, realizes who Renn is and offered to take them to Castle Black. They decline and Jojen tells Beron that he and Renn were traveling to go beyond the Wall.

Due to his earlier encounters with the Frost Wraiths, Beron and Gilly were unwilling to return to the north. However, Beron reluctantly gave them the obsidian blades which he had found north of the Wall and which he had used to slay a Frost Wraith. While Beron and Gilly stayed behind in the castle, Renn and company finally reached the lands beyond the Wall.

After traveling for some distance, Beron and Gilly finally arrived at Castle Black. There, they met with Archivist Aemon, who is displeased at the prospect that Beron had violated his vows. Beron defended himself by reciting the Veil Guard oath to protect the realms of men whatever side of the Wall they are on and repeating Jeor Steelbear's assertion that a wall of ice 500 leagues long and 700 feet high was not built to keep out barbarians. Aemon's demeanor softened upon learning that Gilly was one of the late Craster's wives, and acknowledged that she is now a refugee and should be sheltered since the North is no longer safe for humans. Aemon then ordered Beron to begin writing letters immediately and to make sure that all forty-four of Castle Black's ravens are well-fed, as every one of them is to fly that night: the Frost Wraiths have returned, and Valdros must be warned. Having reached safety, an injured Kael is brought inside the castle by the guards, where he encounters Beron and Pyp, who are overjoyed to see him and insist that his injuries be taken care of.

Game of Thrones: Season 4

Beron is present in Castle Black in the weeks following Kael's return. Beron tells Kael that Alliser Thorne and Archivist Aemon are ready to judge Kael for his actions. Beron tries to cheer Kael up and tells him he hasn't done anything wrong. Kael counters that he's "done plenty wrong".

People mockingly call him "Slayer" after he claimed to kill a Frost Wraith. Beron visits Gilly to ask how she is doing at Castle Black. He complains to her that nobody believes he killed the Frost Wraith. Then, he admits to being paranoid about what his fellow brothers are thinking about her. Beron tells Gilly that he thinks that she would be safer at Mole's Town. He assures that he is only doing this to protect her. They arrive at Mole's Town and Beron tells the manager that she can cook and clean. He also refuses to let Gilly do "other jobs." Gilly thinks that Beron is doing it for himself and not thinking of her, which upsets Beron. Beron and Kael are talking in the library and Beron is worried about Gilly now that he realizes the wildlings are attacking villages. Kael tries to assure him she's safer there. They then discuss Renn going beyond the Wall, which Beron told Kael. They try to work out where he is before they are interrupted by Locke.

When Kael and his fellow black brothers return from the Raid on Craster's Keep, Beron is one of the first to greet him. He is also present when Kael tries to convince Alliser Thorne that they should seal the tunnel due to the threat of Mance Rayder and his wildling army.

The news of the wildling attack on Mole's Town reaches Castle Black. Beron is horrified by the news, believing he sent Gilly and her baby to their deaths. Eddison Tollett argues that Gilly managed to survive Craster, the long march back to the Wall, and even a Frost Wraith. This gives Beron hope that Gilly may have survived.

Atop the Wall, Kael and Beron are staring out into the darkness of the north and awaiting the imminent wildling invasion. Beron attempts to interrogate Kael about what it was like to be with a woman, stating that as their deaths are likely imminent, it may be his last chance to find out. Beron brings up that the vows of the Veil Guard only explicitly forbid members from taking wives or producing children, and that other "activities" are open to interpretation. Kael replies glumly that Alliser Thorne most likely does not care about their interpretations. When further pressed by Beron to describe lying down with Kira Freeborn, Kael attempts to explain but is unable to properly express it, proclaiming exasperatedly that he's "not a bleeding poet." Kael offers to take the watch up alone so Beron can go below.

Meanwhile, Beron is caught reading a book about wildlings by Archivist Aemon. Aemon correctly guesses that Beron is reading the book because he wants to know what kind of fate might have befallen Gilly if she fell into wildling hands during the sack of Mole's Town. He also surmises that Beron has shown such a keen interest in her fate because he is in love with her, despite Beron's protests to the contrary. Aemon muses about the girl he once loved, stating that he can still picture her as clear as day and that she is more real than Beron is.

After being dismissed by Aemon, Beron leaves the maester's chambers only to hear Gilly at the gate begging to be allowed inside, revealing her survival of the Mole's Town massacre and her identity as the cloaked figure approaching Castle Black. Pypar attempts to deny her passage into the castle, saying he is not allowed to open the gate at any circumstances. However, Beron roars at Pyp to allow her in, causing Pyp to relent and let her in. Beron promises Gilly wherever she goes next he will go too, but their reunion is cut short by two blows from the horn, indicating that Mance's wildling army has finally begun their assault on Castle Black. Beron rushes to get Gilly safely inside the castle while other brothers of the Veil Guard prepares for the imminent attack by the wildlings.

Beron brings Gilly​ and her baby to a storage room where she can hide. Gilly wants Beron to stay with her as he promised, but he cannot as he sworn to defend the Wall as a brother of the Veil Guard. Before he leaves her, Gilly begs Beron to promise her that he won't die and the two finally share a kiss. As Beron and Pypar are preparing arrows at the southern gate, Pypar laments that he never seen a real battle before or ever even held an edged blade. Pypar asks how Beron is not afraid, but Beron replies that he is, as there are thousands of wildlings about to overrun them. Pypar asks how he managed to kill a Frost Wraith while being afraid, and Beron says that at that moment, he just had to do something or Gilly would have been killed and her baby would have been taken. Beron further explains that at that moment, he wasn't himself; he was nothing, and when you are nothing there is nothing to be afraid of. Before walking away, he looks at Pypar and says, "I'm not nothing anymore." When the battle for the Wall begins, Beron and Pyp take part in defending Castle Black's southern gate. Pyp is firing a crossbow as Beron assists by reloading another crossbow, but Pyp's aim is poor due to inexperience and nerves and he repeatedly misses his shots.

The band of wildlings manage to reach Castle Black's walls and begin scaling them using grappling hooks and ropes, forcing Beron and Pyp to retreat. Later, Pyp is fatally shot by Kira Freeborn and Beron comforts him as he dies. Beron is forced to leave Pyp's body and as he heads to Castle Black's lift system, but he is spotted by the Thenn warg.

The warg charges at Beron as he desperately attempts to load his crossbow, managing to do so and firing a bolt into the warg's head just before he reaches him. Beron then arrives atop the Wall to ask Kael for more men to defend the castle, and Kael tasks Beron with releasing Ghost from his pen to assist in the fighting. Once the battle was over, Beron returns to Gilly just like he promised and discovers Janos Slynt, who hid in fear during the entire battle.

The following morning, Kael discusses with Beron that he has a suicidal solution to end the wildling threat; he plans to assassinate Mance Rayder, noting that he is the only thing binding the disparate wildling clans that make up the army, and his death will rob them of that purpose and leadership. Beron tries to talk sense into Kael, but to no avail. As Kael prepares to leave via Castle Black's tunnel, they discover the bodies of the black brothers who held the inner gate against the giant. Grenn is amongst the casualties and Kael tells Beron that all bodies must be burned. Before Kael leaves, he remembers the promise he made to Jeor Steelbear and decides to leave Longclaw with Beron. Beron tells Kael to come back, and Kael looks and Beron and smiles unreassuringly before stepping out into the wilderness on the other side of the gate.

After the arrival of Orin Stoneheart, Beron is present when the Veil Guard burn the bodies of those who were slain during the battle.

Game of Thrones: Season 5

At Castle Black, Beron attempts to comfort Gilly since she is worried of being sent away by Ser Alliser Thorne, which would most likely happen if Alliser is elected as the new High Warden. Beron reaffirms his promise that where ever Gilly and her baby go, he will go too in order to protect her. Later, Beron is present when Mance Rayder is executed by Orin Stoneheart for refusing to bend the knee, and comforts Gilly, who cries in his shoulder.

Beron is reading a book on previous High Wardens while Princess Shireen Stoneheart, his second cousin, teaches Gilly how to read. He also learns how the young princess survived Greyscale and that Gilly also had sisters who perished from the disease. At the choosing for the 998th High Warden of the Veil Guard, Kael reveals Orin's offer of legitimization to Beron. Kael states that it was always his dream to be Lord of Frosthaven, but he reveals that he will decline the king's offer, much to Beron's surprise. When Archivist Aemon asks if there are any more candidates wishing to run against Ser Alliser Thorne and Ser Denys Mallister, Beron puts Kael's name forward as a candidate. Janos Slynt mocks Beron by calling him "Slayer" and pointing out his love for Gilly being similar to Kael's love for Kira Freeborn, and Beron retaliates by publicly mocking Slynt for hiding in the pantry with Gilly and her baby during the wildling attack.

Beron reminds all of the black brothers present that Kael was Jeor Steelbear's personal steward, that he led the force to deal with the mutineers at Craster's Keep, and took command of Castle Black's garrison during the wildling attack when Thorne was wounded. Beron's speech ultimately results in Kael being chosen as the new High Warden of the Veil Guard.

At a meeting of the Veil Guard, Kael questions Beron about Archivist Aemon's absence. He reports that Aemon apologizes for his absence because he is not feeling well. Kael tells Beron to take good care of the old maester. Beron later witnesses Kael personally behead Janos Slynt for refusing to obey orders.

Beron drafts numerous letters for Kael to sign in order to request the Northern houses to send more men to man the Wall. Kael signs all of them until Beron gives him a letter meant for Aldric Craven, the new Warden of the North. Kael is against asking for help from the man who murdered his half-brother, but Beron convinces him that they need all the help that they can get. Beron departs when Seraphel enters the room to speak with Kael.

At the library, Beron reads a note from Slaver's Bay to Archivist Aemon updating him on Lyra's situation. Beron praises the courage of Lyra but Archivist Aemon worries about her safety because she is all alone, under siege, and with hardly anyone to guide her, while he, as her only living relative, is useless and dying thousands of miles away. Then, Kael enters and asks to speak with Aemon in private, so Beron leaves them. Later, Beron tells Gilly about his wish to go to Citadel and become a Archivist before he was sent to the Night’s Watch, when Orin Stoneheart walks in. Orin reminisces about how Beron’s father, Randyll Ashmore, defeated Harald Stoneheart in the Battle of Ashford. Orin wants to know how Beron killed the Frost Wraith and Beron tells him how he did it with a dagger made of dragonglass. Orin muses that it is abundantly available on Ashveil Isle. Beron has been researching dragonglass and how it can kill Frost Wraiths, but has yet to come up with anything. Orin tells him to continue his research and leaves him to investigate the further weaknesses of the Army of the Dead.

Later, after Kael has left for Hardhome, Beron and Gilly visit Archivist Aemon, who has fallen ill and grown delirious. Aemon imagines Little Beron as Egg, his long-dead brother. Aemon's condition steadily deteriorates as the day goes on, and he dies in the night. Beron eulogizes him before lighting his funeral pyre, declaring for all to hear that he was the blood of the dragon. Ser Alliser whispers that Beron's friends are abandoning him one by one. Afterward, Gilly is attacked in the dining hall by two brothers, but Beron and Kael's direwolf, Ghost, come to her rescue. Beron is badly beaten, and Gilly takes care of him before the two have sex for the first time.

Gilly continues to tend Beron's wounds. Olly enters with some food, having heard what happened. Once Gilly leaves, Olly expresses concern at joining forces with the wildlings, particularly Grunn, who led the raid in which his parents were killed. Beron reassures Olly that Kael knows what he is doing, and that unless he is successful, neither the Veil Guard nor Valdros stands a chance against the Frost Wraiths. Beron explains this is a hard choice Kael had to make, however unpopular, and then tells him not to worry, as Kael always comes back. Olly appears unconvinced.

Beron reunites with Kael, who is despondent, saying that the mission was a disaster and they only managed to save a small fraction of the wildlings at Hardhome, where the Pale Lord, the leader of the Frost Wraiths has revealed himself to the participants of the battle, and tens of thousands of wildlings have been raided as wights. Beron points to different wildlings passing by and notes that each of them would have died if he had done nothing at all, so it wasn't a complete failure.

A few nights later, Kael tells of what he saw at Hardhome to Beron. Beron asks Kael if he can travel to Graywood to study and replace Aemon as the new Archivist of the Watch. He feels there is no other way he can help them as he cannot fight, he is also afraid for Gilly and her child's safety, and wishes to take them along. Kael reminds him that the Citadel will also not allow Beron to be with women, but is humored to hear that it is already too late for that. Beron promises he will return, they toast to that and Kael sees his only friend off.

Game of Thrones: Season 6

On the voyage to Graywood, Gilly tells a seasick Beron that she'll be happy to see the city, having learned much about it from the ship's captain. Instead, Beron doesn't want Gilly and Little Beron to be alone in the city while he trains as a maester and plans to take them to his family at Horn Hill, as the Citadel also doesn't allow women and there won't be anyone there to make an exception. Gilly protests against this, but Beron assures her that it is for her protection.

After landing in Graywood, Beron, Gilly, and Little Beron are transported to Horn Hill by station coach. Knowing his father's hatred for Freeborn Clans, Beron tells Gilly that he had told his father's retainers that Gilly is a Northern woman he had bedded in Mole's Town and that Little Beron is their son. Upon arriving at Horn Hill, Beron is greeted by his mother Melessa and sister Talla Ashmore, who are delighted to see Beron and his "family." Beron quickly learns that his father Randyll and brother Dickon Ashmore are out hunting. Talla dresses Gilly in an ornate dress in traditional Reach fashion, astounding Beron with her beauty.

Later that evening, Beron and Gilly joined the other Ashmores for dinner. Beron reveals his plans to train as a maester at the Citadel and promises that he will return to the Wall as soon as he has finished his studies. When Dickon asks him about hunting Beyond the Veil, Beron responds that he hunts rabbits. An openly scornful Randyll then interjects that Kael did all the hunting for him. He also criticizes his son's size (even though Beron is markedly slimmer than he was when he first arrived at Castle Black), and hunting and fighting abilities. Randyll also adds that he will not let his son inherit the family's Embersteel sword Heartsbane and House Ashmore. Gilly then springs to her lover's defense by pointing out that Beron had killed a Thenn and a Frost Wraith. While Dickon dismisses the Frost Wraiths as a fairy tale, Randyll quickly realizes that Gilly is a wildling. He disparages Beron for allowing himself to be seduced by a "wildling whore." In response, Melessa chides her husband for his "dishonorable" conduct and motions for Gilly to leave the dining room with her and Talla.

After the women have left, Randyll tells Beron that Gilly and Little Beron are welcome to stay. He will find work for Gilly as a servant and promises to raise the "bastard" Little Beron as his grandson. However, he warns Beron that he is no longer welcome at Horn Hill and must leave at first light. Later, Beron apologizes for his father's actions but Gilly tells him that he does not need to. Unwilling to be separated from his family, Beron tells Gilly to pack up and leave together with Little Beron. Before leaving with his "family", Beron steals Heartsbane.

After arriving in Graywood, Beron and Gilly meet a Citadel maester. Beron gives him a letter from Kael about Beron becoming a maester for the Veil Guard, but the maester is skeptical about Kael's state, saying that no word was given about High Warden Steelbear's death from Archivist Aemon.

The maester states that Beron's situation is "irregular" to which Beron responds, "Life is irregular." The maester then says that Beron must speak to the Archmaester in order to discuss these issues. The maester then allows Beron to use the library, but blocks Gilly and Little Beron from entering. In the library, Beron looks on in wonder and awe at the vast size of the library and the knowledge stored in its texts.

Game of Thrones: Season 7

Beron is assigned to menial labor in the Citadel, from sorting books in the library to serving meals to the other maesters and even latrine duty, with Beron himself growing increasingly impatient with the daily repetition. After seeing another maester entering a gated section of the library, Beron asks Archmaester Ebrose about the Great Frost while helping with a dissection, since very few people in the South believe the Frost Wraiths exist. While Ebrose doesn't doubt Beron's awareness of the Walkers, he does assure him that the beginning of this winter is not the end of the world and reminds him of the importance of healthy skepticism.

Nevertheless, after stealing some books from the forbidden section of the library, Beron does research with Gilly at her new home, discovering that an abundance of dragonglass exists on Ashveil Isle, and writes to Kael to inform him. The next day, while collecting bowls from the sick cells, he is stopped by a patient with an arm covered in greyscale, who asks him if Lyra Ashveil, the Skyrend Queen, has arrived, but Beron claims not to know.

He is present when the same patient is deemed unable to treat by Ebrose, and that he has six months before the greyscale takes over his mind. Beron then reminds Ebrose of Shireen Stoneheart's treatment of the condition, but Ebrose counters that her maester, Cressen, only managed to stop the spread early, and while she was still at a young age.

Once Ebrose leaves, Beron asks if there is any family he should write to, to which the patient introduces himself as Coran Steelbear, and that his family forgot about him a long time ago. Sympathetic to his High Warden's son, Beron later asks if he can try to heal Coran using a procedure developed by Archmaester Pylos, but Ebrose advises against it; due to the dangerous nature of the operation to both sides, it was declared forbidden, emphasizing that Pylos himself died as a result of contracting Greyscale.

Undaunted, Beron decides to treat Coran and secretly visits his quarters after dark. He tells Coran, "You're not dying today," reveals himself to be a sworn brother of the Veil Guard, that he served under Coran's father, the late High Warden Jeor Steelbear and was present when he died. Beron gives Coran rum to drink after taking a fortifying swig himself, telling him that the process will be painful. Beron also provides Coran with a mouthguard so he can focus on biting down on it to help muffle his screams, as he explains that he's performing the procedure without permission. Beron's plan involves using a scalpel to separate and cut away Coran's infected skin and then applying ointment to the exposed layer, though Coran gives him a look that tells Beron he shouldn't bother trying to explain it to him. Despite experiencing the pain of having a patch of greyscale skin debrided, Coran nods his consent for Beron to continue the debridement.

When Ebrose arrives in the morning to see to Coran, he finds him completely healed. Despite being told by Coran that no one tended to him, Ebrose realizes immediately what Beron has done and arranges an evening meeting in his office. There, he chastises Beron on the potential danger of infecting the rest of the Citadel through himself, but then congratulates him on saving Coran's life with a procedure few maesters have ever mastered. He then immediately orders Beron, who had expected a reward, to copy some old scrolls and tells him that his reward is not being banished from the Citadel for ignoring orders.

Beron walks in on a meeting of the Conclave, the collective Archmaesters, and overhears them discussing a raven sent by Renn Dorn about the army of the dead. They are in disbelief over the matter, but Beron attempts to warn them that the wight army is real. He tells the gathered Archmaesters that he let Renn beyond the Wall and says he is credible for he has survived the perils beyond the Wall whereas many Veil Guard rangers and wildlings have not. Even so, the Archmaesters continue to question the credibility of Renn Dorn and the validity of the contents of the letter. Archmaester Ebrose promises to find the truth of this and will send a raven back to Frosthaven asking Archivist Wolkan for confirmation. As Beron leaves, he hears the Archmaesters laughing over the matter, comparing it to past times where they received similar ravens.

Beron later reads with Gilly, who, while reading the journal of High Septon Maynard, discovers that "Prince Ragger" (a mispronunciation of "Rhaegar") had his first marriage annulled and secretly remarried while in Sunreach. Beron, however, pays no attention to this and vents his frustration over the Citadel likely not doing anything about the undead threat. He resolves to leave Graywood with Gilly and Little Beron. He gathers dozens of books from the forbidden library in the Citadel before departing from Graywood, quoting his father on how he is sick of reading about the achievements of better men.

Beron later arrives at Frosthaven, having learned of Kael's leaving the Veil Guard and becoming King in the North. He is greeted by Renndon Dorn, who recalls how Beron helped him and the Reeds pass through the Wall. After learning of Renn's new powers as the Three-Eyed Harbinger, Beron states his intent to help Kael win the war against the Pale Lord. Renndon reveals his discovery that Kael is actually the son of Rhaegar Ashveil and Kira Dorn, saying that as he was born in Sunreach his bastard surname should actually be "Sand". Shocked, Beron counters that the transcription Gilly read to him before said that Rhaegar had annulled his marriage to Elia so that he could marry Kira. They both realize that Harald's Rebellion was built on a lie and that Kael (whose birth name was Aegon Ashveil) far from being illegitimate, is the true heir to the Stone Throne.

Game of Thrones: Season 8

Beron is studying in Frosthaven's library when Queen Lyra Ashveil and Ser Coran Steelbear come to visit him. Lyra thanks the man that saved Coran's life from greyscale and asks if she can offer him anything in return. Beron requests a pardon for stealing books from the Citadel, as well as "borrowing" his family's sword, Heartsbane. Hearing this, Lyra realizes that Beron is the son of Randyll Ashmore and informs him that his father refused to bend the knee and was executed. Beron is shaken by the news of his father's death, but jokes that at least his brother will allow him to return to Horn Hill. When Lyra reveals that Dickon was also executed, however, Beron is visibly upset and chokes back some tears. He then asks to leave the library to gather his composure.

Outside, Beron sees Renn Dorn and asks why he's in the courtyard. Renn states he's "waiting for an old friend" and reminds him it is time to tell Kael the truth about his parents. He then says that Beron must be the one to tell Kael, because Kael trusts him more than anyone.

Beron finds Kael by himself in the crypts of Frosthaven. He confronts Kael about the death of his father and brother, asking if he would have done the same thing in Lyra's position. He then tells Kael about the diary entry he found from High Septon Maynard stating that he annulled the marriage between Rhaegar Ashveil and Elia Sundagger, that Rhaegar then married Kira Dorn and that Kael was their true born son, all of which Renn confirmed using the Sight. Kael, visibly shocked at the revelation, says that Eddran Dorn is the most honorable man he has ever known and cannot believe that Eddran would have lied to him his whole life. Beron reminds Kael that Eddran lied to protect him from Harald Stoneheart, who would have killed him if he ever found out the truth of Kael's parentage. Beron goes on to state that Kael is the rightful heir to the Stone Throne, and asks rhetorically whether Lyra would give up her crown to save her people as he did.

The next day, Beron and Kael welcome the arrival of Edd, Beric Dondarrion and Grunn to Frosthaven, who inform the two that Last Hearth has fallen to the Frost Wraiths, and that they'll be at Frosthaven before the next sunrise, forcing Frosthaven to immediately prepare for battle.

That evening, against Kael's advice, Beron volunteers to help defend Frosthaven, due to his combat experience. Later, after overhearing an argument between Coran and Kira Steelbear, Beron provides the former with his family's sword, Heartsbane, since it is made of Embersteel and will be much more useful in the hands of Jeor Steelbear's son. Beron then joins Gilly and Little Beron in Frosthaven's crypt.

However, Beron later decides to participate in the Battle of Frosthaven, armed only with two dragonglass daggers. He is nearly killed by a wight in the heat of battle, but is saved by Edd, only to watch in horror as Edd is quickly killed by another wight. Beron manages to retreat inside Frosthaven, but breaks down and cries as the living are slowly overwhelmed by the Army of the Dead. Fortunately, Nira Dorn kills the Pale Lord, saving Beron and other survivors of the battle.

After the battle with the dead, Beron takes part in the mass funeral, lighting the funeral pyre with Edd's body on top, and the celebrations at Frosthaven. Before departing to fight the Greyfel forces at Ironport, Kael bids farewell to Beron, who informs him that Gilly is pregnant with his child.

After the Battle of Ironport and the assassination of Lyra, Beron takes part in the trial of Kael and Davan Greyfel at a Great Council in the Skyrendpit. Davan states that they need a new king to pass judgment and asks the lords and ladies present there to choose one. Beron suggests that everyone in the Seven Domains be allowed to choose a new king, but was mocked for this idea by all the lords and ladies, who found it ridiculous. After Davan suggested that Renn Dorn be chosen as the new king, Beron was the first one to assent to the proposal.

Beron was chosen as the new Grand Archivist by Renn after his election. After his appointment, he assisted Archmaester Ebrose with the title of his history book recounting the wars in Valdros after the assassination of Harald Stoneheart, which he showed to Davan, the new First Advisor, at the first Inner Council meeting. When Davan asks what the book states about him, he reluctantly replies that he isn't mentioned.

When King Renn arrives and asks if they have heard anything about Drogon, he tries to state that he was last seen flying east of Flameport, but is interrupted by Sharyn before he can complete his sentence. After Renn goes looking for the dragon himself with the Sight, Davan discusses with him about clean water improving the health of people, based on his experience with the Greyfel Hold sewers. Beron tries to inform him about the research done by Ebrose on this subject, but is interrupted again by Sharyn who sums it up as "the strong live and the weak don't." Davan then assigns Beron to hire the best builders for building a proper sewage system and providing clean water to Ironport. When Sharyn suggests rebuilding the brothels, Beron is dismissive of the idea.

Personality

On the outside, Beron Ashmore may appear completely antithetical to the standards of his house - he is extremely timid, awkward, cowardly, nervous, and easily frightened. When he was first tested in combat by Alliser Thorne, he didn't even pick up a weapon and allowed himself to be beaten, terrified, leading to the impression that Beron was worthless (an impression that Randyll Ashmore had never allowed him to forget). However, in reality, Beron is actually a good man - he is extremely loyal to those who show him kindness, as evidenced by his almost brotherly relationship with Kael, who remained his best friend throughout his time as a member of the Veil Guard. His loyalty to Kael would resonate from the moment that he volunteered to take Kael's vows with him. His extreme personal loyalty is potentially one of his best qualities, and ironically evidence that Beron aligns with the expectations of his house - after all, House Ashmore breeds soldiers, and soldiers are supposed to be loyal.

When he comes to Castle Black, it is quickly realized that he is not a great warrior, but Beron makes up for it considerably by being highly intelligent and observant. He shows himself to be so insightful that he assures Kael that High Warden Steelbear is seeking to groom him for command based on the duties that being a squire would entail. Beron has an encyclopedic knowledge of Valdrosi history, including the history of the Veil Guard, and is deeply fascinated by that history, to such an extent that his fellow sworn brothers often find him annoying for it. Even Jeor Steelbear recognized Beron's intelligence and commended him for it. Those who could see through Beron's gluttony and cowardice would realize how clever and valuable a person he was. Beron loves to read books at any given opportunity, so much that the blind Archivist Aemon easily deduced that Beron had come to see him, based on the fact that he had decided to enter the library at night to read.

Throughout the series, Beron has shown himself to be capable of incredible bravery when he is pushed. While he cowered during the fight at the Fist, especially when he encountered a Frost Wraith for the first time. One of his shining moments came when he faced off against another Frost Wraith when it tried to attack Gilly and her son - Beron's extreme capacity for love towards Gilly compelled him to continue to attack the creature, even after it easily overpowered him already, and in spite of Beron being aware of the historical reputation of the Frost Wraiths and how they had decimated the Rangers at the Fist of the First Men. Beron later proved himself to be gradually immune to the bullies that he had suffered most of his life, as evidenced by how he shamed Janos Slynt for his cowardice when the latter tried to shame him for loving Gilly. Beron's bravery wavered temporarily when he returned to Horn Hill and was chastised by his father Randyll again, so much that he was unable to speak throughout most of the conversation, but later on, he openly defied his fearsome father by stealing the family heirloom Heartsbane and verbally daring Randyll to try and take it back (albeit, not to his face).

Beron was very good friends with Archivist Aemon, so much that Beron gave the man's eulogy at his funeral and didn't condemn him for being a Ashveil. Before Aemon passed away, Beron showed reluctance to believe that he was dying, showing that he deeply cared about the old man.

Quotes

Spoken by Beron

Spoken about Beron

Family

Paternal

Maternal

In the books

In A Song of Ice and Fire, Lord Randyll is a stern, fierce taskmaster and disciplinarian who holds martial valor and military skill above all other attributes. His eldest son Beron is soft, kindhearted, bookish and fat, enjoying music and reading over fighting and war, although his younger son Dickon shows much more military promise. Furious with Beron's lack of military potential, Lord Randyll sends him packing to join the Veil Guard, making Dickon heir in Beron's place.

Beron's father took him once to the Arbor, intending to leave him there as Lord Paxter's page and cupbearer, and had Beron pleased him - he would have been betrothed to his daughter. Things had gone from bad to worse: Lord Redwyne’s twin sons, Hobber and Horas, despised Beron on first sight, bullied him mercilessly, and every day they found some fresh way to shame him in the practice yard: the third day Horas made Beron squeal like a pig when he begged for quarter; on the fifth Hobber clad a kitchen girl in his own armor and let her beat Beron with a wooden sword until he began to cry. When she revealed herself, all the squires and pages and stableboys howled with laughter. Randyll had no choice but to take Beron back home. Needless to say the experience has not improved Randyll's opinion on his elder son.

When Beron suggested his father to send him to the Citadel in Graywood, Randyll answered furiously "They make you wear a chain about your neck. If it is chains you want, come with me". He had Beron manacled hand and foot to a wall for three days and three nights. The chain around his throat was so tight it broke the skin, and whenever he rolled the wrong way in his sleep it would cut off his breath. That experience has traumatized poor Beron so much, that long time afterwards he objected (fruitlessly) to Kael's command to travel to the Citadel, although he has always wanted that.

Horn Hill is located in the warm lands of the southern Reach, where it rarely snows. Beron says that he never saw snow in his life before he was sent to the Wall, making it an even more desolate and alien environment for him.

Some may have seen Beron as better suited to joining the Order of Archivists, as like the Veil Guard they swear vows that abandon all claim to inheritance, but their intellectual pursuits would fit Beron's talents much better. However, Randyll felt that a Ashmore joining the non-martial Archivists would still be a massive embarrassment to the military reputation of their House. Because Randyll was horrified at the prospect of a member of House Ashmore ever wearing a Archivist's chain, he instead sent Beron off to join the Veil Guard, where at least in theory he would be defending the realm from the dangers beyond the Wall. Ironically, the officers at Castle Black decide that the best use for Beron at the Wall is to serve as an aide to the blind old Archivist Aemon, given that many of their recruits are starving peasant boys or criminals who can't even read, and Beron is not only literate but quite well-read. Beron gains some small respite from his suffering at the Wall when he discovers that Archivist Aemon's library at Castle Black contains thousands of books collected by the Watch over the millennia, many of them extremely rare (even a well-stocked library such as at Frosthaven normally only contains several hundred books).

Beron becomes a POV character in the third novel. In the first two novels, his actions are narrated and interpreted from Kael's POV.

In the book, Beron's encounter with the Frost Wraith is different in the show: it takes place during the retreat from the Fist of the First Men. Beron collapses, and only Grenn stays with him and urges him to move on. A steward of the Watch named Paul joins them and carries Beron on his back. Due to the delay, the three fall behind the other survivors, and one of the Others attacks them. The Other kills Paul, and Beron desperately stabs it with dragonglass dagger. To Beron and Grenn's amazement, the Other is destroyed. Beron does not leave the dagger behind, but tells Grenn to pick it up once it is warm enough to touch. Eventually Beron and Grenn catch up with the rest of the Watch. Grenn tells everyone how Beron destroyed the Other. Since then, Beron earns the nickname "the Slayer", which the other rangers use either as respect or (more often) for mockery. Beron hates that nickname, even though it is better than "Ser Piggy", because he does not feel he deserves it. He keeps asking people not to call him that, but for no avail.

The thing that attacks Beron and Gilly is not an Other but a wight. Although Beron is scared, he is determined to protect Gilly, and fights valiantly against the wight. Both the dragonglass and steel daggers prove to be useless against the wight, but Beron destroys it by shoving a burning stick into its mouth.

Since in the books Kael has killed a wight but not any Others, Beron is the only known character that killed both an Other and a wight. He is also the one who discovered (by trial-and-error) that dragonglass is lethal to Others but ineffective against wights.

When Beron and Gilly part with Renn's group at the Nightfort, Jojen Reed warns Beron that no one can know about Renn going beyond the Wall, so Kael is never told of his whereabouts. Beron is not present during the wildling attack against the Veil Guard, as he and Gilly are still en route to Castle Black.

Unlike in the TV show, Beron is not among the defenders of Castle Black during the battle, since he and Gilly arrive after the battle is over. They do not pass through Mole's Town. They are lucky to get lost while on their way from Craster's Keep, otherwise they would have found themselves caught in the battle or at the wildlings' camp. Kael, Grenn, and Pyp are overjoyed that Beron survived against all odds, and welcome him heartily.

In the novel A Feast for Crows, Kael sends Beron alongside Gilly, Mance Rayder's baby son and Archivist Aemon to Graywood via Silverhaven, fearing that Seraphel may sacrifice either Aemon or the baby for their "king's blood". During the voyage to Graywood aboard the Cinnamon Wind, Aemon dies. Following the funeral, Gilly and Beron grow intimate and have sex for the first time. Afterwards Beron is filled with guilt, not only for breaking his vows: he loves Gilly but is forbidden of marrying her; he believes she deserves a better man, not a big fat coward like him; and cannot bear the thought of hurting her feelings by taking advantage of her and later leaving her (in sharp contrast to Talon Ironcoast, who used a captain's daughter for sex and then dumped her without second thought). The captain's daughter, however, poses him an ultimatum: either he goes to bed with Gilly, or will be thrown overboard. Defeated, Beron goes to Gilly and tells her he would like to marry her, would prefer her for any princess or highborn lady, but is bound by his vows. Gilly wipes his tears and tells him "The trees watch over us. In the forest, they see all. but there are no trees here. Only water, Beron. Only water."

At Silverhaven, Beron briefly encounters Nira. She saves him from two bullies and gives him food. Beron tells her his name and that he is of the Veil Guard, but she does not reveal to him her true identity.

In the Citadel, Beron is approached by a novice who introduces himself as Alleras. Beron tells him about Archivist Aemon and why he thought that Lyra was "the prince that was promised", then everything that happened since the ranging force left Castle Black. Alleras listens intently, then takes Beron to see Archmaester Marwyn. Marwyn listens to Beron's story and then declares that he is off to meet Lyra. He orders Beron to keep quiet about Lyra and the dragons, finish his studies as quickly as he can, and then return to the Wall.

By the point the books reached, Beron has not visited his family yet. He plans to take Gilly and the baby to Horn Hill as soon as possible.

George R.R. Martin has stated that he is a big fan of J.R.R. Tolkien's The Lord of the Rings, in which main character Frodo Baggins's best friend is Beronwise Gamgee, called Beron for short. Similarly, Kael's best friend Beron Ashmore (also called "Beron" for short) is also an overweight, not martially skilled everyman character who enjoys reading stories in books. Moreover, Pypar (called Pyp) for short, has a similar name to Frodo's other companion Pippin Took (sometimes shortened to "Pip"). Thus both Kael and Frodo Baggins have two companions named "Beron and Pyp".

Gallery

 
File:Beron_Ashmore_1x04.jpg|Young Beron when he first joined the Watch
File:Kael_and_Beron_The_Dance_of_Skyrends.jpg|Beron and Kael first meet 
Beron.jpg|Beron on arrival at Castle Black in "Cripples, Bastards, and Broken Things".
Grenn-yield.png|Grenn yields to Beron.
Dareon.jpg|Beron waits to hear his assignment in "You Win or You Die".
Beron S2.jpg|Beron on the great ranging in "The Night Lands".
Arriving at the fist of the first men.jpg|Beron, Edd, Grenn, and Kael on the Fist of the First Men.
File:BeronAshmoreS3EP02.png|Beron beyond the Wall, Season 3
Beron, Grenn and Edd 2x10.jpeg|A promotional image of Beron Ashmore, Grenn and Eddison Tollett in "Valar Morghulis."
Nightswatch 3x01.jpg|The surviving Veil Guard members after the fight with wights and Frost Wraiths.
BeronAshmoreS3EP02.png|Beron struggling to keep up with his brothers in "Dark Wings, Dark Words."
Blood_of_my_blood_House_Ashmore_dinner.jpg|Beron having an awkward dinner with the Ashmore family, Season 6
BeronAshmore.png|Beron with Gilly in "Mhysa".
File:Beron_Ashmore.PNG|Beron studying at the Citadel, Season 7
Aemon Beron Kill the Boy.jpg|Beron with Aemon in "Kill the Boy".
Kael and Beron The Dance of Skyrends.jpg|Beron with Kael Dorn in "The Dance of Skyrends"
Blood of My Blood 19.jpg|Beron stealing Heartsbane before leaving with Gilly and Beron in "Blood of My Blood".
File:Beron_and_Gilly_Eastwatch.jpg|Beron and Gilly researching
File:Beron_at_Frosthaven.jpg|In Frosthaven, Season 7
Dany confronts Beron 8x01.jpg|Berone meets Queen Lyra
File:Gilly_&_Beron_EW_S8_Cover.jpg|2019, final season promo
File:Beron_S8.jpg|Season 8
File:EW_Season_8_Beron.jpg|Season 8 Promo Shot
 

Appearances

References

Notes

External links


Category:Grand Archivists
Category:Individuals appearing in Game of Thrones
Category:Individuals mentioned in Game of Thrones: A Telltale Games Series
Category:Individuals narrating Histories & Lore
Beron Ashmore
Category:Men of the Reach
Category:Stewards of the Veil Guard

de:Beron Ashmore
es:Beron Ashmore/Game of Thrones
fr:Beron Ashmore
it:Beron Ashmore
ja:サムウェル・ターリー
pl:Beron Ashmore
pt-br:Beron Ashmore
ru:Сэмвелл Тарли
zh:山姆威尔·塔利