{{Character

 
Queen Lysa Dorn is the eldest daughter of Lord Eddran Dorn and his wife, Lady Sera, sister of Aldric, Nira, Renn, and Torvin Dorn, and "half-sister" of Kael Dorn; though truthfully he is her cousin.

Initially betrothed to Prince Caryn Stoneheart, the heir to the Stone Throne, Lysa travels to Ironport in preparation for her nuptials, but essentially becomes a hostage of House Greyfel following the execution of her father on trumped-up charges of treason. Under the (sometimes unwitting) tutelage of Mira Greyfel, Lyanne Thornfield, and Petran Silvertongue, Lysa becomes well-versed in politics and court intrigue, but suffers all the same. 

Even after escaping the capital and returning to her childhood home of Frosthaven, she endures further hardship at the hands of House Craven. After escaping from Frosthaven with the help of her father's former ward, Talon Ironcoast, and her sworn-sword, Briana Stoneguard, Lysa reunites with Kael at Castle Black. Along with the support of the Free Clans, the knights of the Vale, and certain Northern houses, the two of them retake Frosthaven from Sable Craven, and Lysa becomes the Lady of Frosthaven, whilst Kael is declared King in the North. 

Displeased at Kael for abdicating his title in favor of House Ashveil, she finds enmity with Queen Lyra, who refuses to accept Northern independence in her restoration and quest for the Stone Throne. Following the Battle of Ironport and Lyra's subsequent assassination, Lysa declares the North an independent kingdom and is later crowned Queen in the North.

Biography

Background

Lysa Dorn is the eldest daughter and second child of Lady Sera and Lord Eddran Dorn, the Warden of the North.

Lysa was born and raised at Frosthaven. She has an older brother, Aldric, two younger brothers, Renn and Torvin, a younger sister, Nira, and a "bastard half-brother" Kael Dorn, with whom she had a distant relationship due to her mother's influence (which, like her mother, Lysa later regretted). Lysa enjoys proper "lady-like" pursuits and is good at sewing, embroidering, poetry, singing, dancing, literature, etiquette, history, and music. When she was young she dreamed of being a queen like Mira Greyfel, and that just like in the epic songs she would meet her knight in shining armor. She has inherited her mother's Tully coloring, and Lady Sera thought Lysa will be even more beautiful than she was when she was younger. She is often seen in contrast with her sister Nira, who has neither her looks nor her accomplishments in feminine activities and comportment.HBO viewers guide, season 2 guide to houses, House Dorn - Lysa Dorn entry 

Game of Thrones: Season 1

Lysa is given praise by Septa Mordane after exceeding in her sewing abilities, in contrast to her sister Nira, who finds this tedious and difficult.

When her brothers find an orphaned litter of direwolf pups, Lysa adopts the gentlest one and names her Lady. King Harald Stoneheart visits Frosthaven to offer Lysa's father the position of First Advisor. Harald also offers to betroth his son Caryn to Lysa. Lysa, who is very taken with the handsome young prince, thinks this is a splendid notion. She longs for the excitement of the capital and begs her parents to agree to the match until they do so. Eddran takes the office of Hand and decides to take his daughters with him to the capital.

At the Inn at the Crossroads beside the Kingsroad, Caryn offers to walk Lysa along the riverbank after the disquieting experience of meeting Ser Ilyn Payne, the king's headsman. They find Nira practicing her swordsmanship with Mycah, a butcher's son, and Caryn starts to hurt him for acting above his station and striking a girl of noble blood. Nira strikes Caryn, and when the prince threatens her with his sword, Nira's direwolf, Nymeria, intervenes and bites Caryn's arm. Nira and Mycah flee and Caryn cries before snapping at Lysa to get him help. Lysa is taken before Harald and his retainers and asked to corroborate Caryn's claim, that he was the victim of an unprovoked attack. Nira tells her to tell the truth, but to Nira's fury, Lysa is worried about upsetting her betrothal with Caryn, so she says that it happened too fast for her to know. Mira orders that Nira's direwolf be executed for harming Caryn, but when the direwolf cannot be found, she suggests that Lysa's own direwolf Lady be substituted for Nymeria. Lysa and Nira are horrified Lady will be killed and protest. Eddran, furious with Harald for agreeing to this, carries out the execution himself, to Lysa's anguish.

Arriving in Ironport, Lysa's enmity towards Nira and her father continues. Eddran fails to mollify Lysa by buying her a doll as she had outgrown dolls. Eddran explains to Nira that Lysa could not defy Caryn or go against his version of events if Lysa wished to maintain his goodwill in marriage.

Septa Mordane shows Lysa the throne room of the Red Keep as part of a history lesson, and she realizes that her grandfather and uncle were killed there by the Mad King. Lysa is fearful that she will not be able to give Caryn sons, only daughters like her friend Jeyne Poole's mother, but Mordane doesn't think this likely. At the Hand's tournament, Lysa witnesses the Mountain killing Ser Hugh of the Vale during a joust. Silvertongue tells Lysa about how Gorran burned the face of his brother, the Hound, when they were very young. Korryn is Caryn's bodyguard and Silvertongue advises against repeating the story to Korryn.

Lysa is given a flower by Ser Doran Thornfield, the famous Knight of the Flowers, before his tilt with Ser Gorran Stonehound. He gives the flower to Lysa, but he is looking at Garren who is sitting behind her. She witnesses him defeating Gorran, and Gorran's subsequent furious attack on him, which is halted only by the intervention of Korryn. She joins the smallfolk in applauding Korryn's actions.

Lysa and Septa Mordane are embroidering, and Lysa speaks very rudely to her. Caryn visits Lysa and gives her a present, a pendant identical to Mira's. He also apologizes for the incident on the Kingsroad and kisses her, winning back her favor, as well as expressing his fondness towards their marriage and Lysa's future as Queen. Unbeknownst to Lysa, this was done at the suggestion of Mira, who had recently informed Caryn that the North must be kept under their control through his marriage to Lysa. Lysa is later told by her father that he is sending her and Nira back to Frosthaven, and her betrothal to Caryn is to be broken. Lysa refuses to accept this. She tells them that she loves Caryn, she will be his queen and give him beautiful blonde-haired children. Lysa says Caryn will be a great king and a golden lion. When Nira points out that Caryn isn't a lion, but a stag like his father, Lysa angrily says Caryn is nothing like Harald. This inadvertently leads Eddran to realize that Caryn and his siblings are not Harald's true children. Eddran tells Lysa and Nira that they are returning to Frosthaven, over Lysa's furious protests.

King Harald dies following a hunting accident, and Eddran attempts to reveal the truth about Caryn to prevent him from taking the throne. Eddran is betrayed by Silvertongue, his guards are killed and he is arrested. Eddran's retinue at the Red Keep is slaughtered by Greyfel guardsmen led by Korryn. Mordane moves to confront the Greyfel soldiers while telling Lysa to lock herself in their rooms. Lysa is taken into custody by Korryn and brought to Mira.

 She pleads for her father's cause, insisting that a mistake has been made, and proclaims her own loyalty. Mira says that she will believe Lysa is loyal on the condition that Lysa writes to Aldric, asking him to bend the knee and swear fealty to Caryn. The letter is unsuccessful and instead, Aldric raises an army and marches south to relieve the Riverlands from the Greyfel armies. Lysa again pleads for mercy and for her father's life, this time in front of the entire court, and Caryn agrees to give Eddran mercy if he admits his wrongdoing and acknowledges Caryn as the true king. Lysa says that she is sure he will.

At his trial, Eddran Dorn acknowledges his "crimes" and swears loyalty to King Caryn. To Lysa's utter shock and horror, Caryn nevertheless orders to execute her father. Distraught, Lysa is screaming and forcibly restrained. Despite her increasingly hysterical pleas for mercy for her father, Ser Ilyn Payne nonetheless carries out the execution with the Dorns' own family greatsword, Ice, prompting Lysa to faint in horror.

Days later, Lysa is in court and watches as Caryn orders the removal of the tongue of the singer Marillion, who has written a song unfavorable to the royal family. Caryn then takes Lysa to the traitor's walkway, where the severed heads of executed criminals are mounted on spikes along the castle walls. He draws Lysa's attention to the severed heads of her father and Septa Mordane and forces her to look at them.

Lysa refuses to give Caryn the satisfaction of seeing her upset and shows no emotional response. Caryn tells her that executing Eddran was showing mercy, as he gave him a quick death, and he suggests that he will mount her brother Aldric's head on the wall after defeating him. Lysa retorts that maybe Aldric will take Caryn's head instead. Furious, Caryn has Ser Meryn Trant of the Stone Throne Guard strike her. Caryn tells Lysa that they are still to be married. Lysa contemplates pushing Caryn off the walkway but is discreetly stopped by Korryn. After Caryn and Meryn leave, Korryn gives her a cloth to attend to her cut lip and tells her that she will be needing it again.

Game of Thrones: Season 2

Lysa remains a captive of Queen Regent Mira in Ironport. She has learned to feign loyalty to Caryn to avoid further abuse from him. She attends Caryn's name day tournament and convinces him to spare Ser Dontos Hollard when he attends drunk.

Lysa is forced to sit through the Greyfels discussing killing her brother Aldric over dinner. She vents her frustration on her new handmaid Shae. When Aldric wins a crushing victory at the Battle of Oxcross, Caryn responds by having Lysa stripped and beaten in front of the court. Davan intervenes and offers to end her engagement to Caryn, but she retains her facade of loyalty, impressing the Imp.

Lysa attends the departure of Princess Myrcella Stoneheart for Sunreach. She stands up to Caryn when he mocks his brother Tommen for crying. As the royal party returns to the Red Keep, Caryn is struck by excrement thrown by the angry crowd. Caryn causes citywide riots by demanding that his guards kill all of the smallfolk present. In the chaos, Lysa is separated from the rest of the group and as she tries to flee to safety, she is pursued by a group of men who nearly rape her. She is rescued by the Hound, just as Davan is in the process of browbeating Caryn for losing her in the first place. Shae treats her injuries and Lysa confides she thought the rioters were going to kill her, observing how they hated her and wonders why they would hate a stranger so much. Shae replies it is because Lysa has more than they will ever have, that her horse eats better than their children. Lysa says she would have given them food if she had it and she too hates Caryn more than anyone. Shae warns her not to say such things and to trust no-one.

 Lysa has a nightmare that she is being stabbed by her attackers from the riots. She wakes up to find her mattress bloodied by the onset of her first period. Shae tries to help Lysa conceal the evidence as it means she is ready to bear Caryn's children. The Stonehound catches them and (reluctantly) informs the Queen. Mira gives Lysa advice on motherhood, reassuring her that even if she never loves Caryn, she will love her children with him. However, Mira tells Lysa not to love anybody except for her children, "The more people you love, the weaker you are."

Orin Stoneheart sails his fleet into the bay outside Ironport, triggering the Battle of the Blackwater. Lysa is summoned to the throne room to say goodbye to Caryn. He forces her to kiss his new sword and she subtly undermines his bravado. She then takes refuge in Maegor's Holdfast with Shae where Mira is hosting the women of the court there. Mira mocks Lysa's faith and reveals Ilyn Payne is present to kill them all if the walls are breached. She drunkenly advises Lysa to use her sexuality as a weapon. Eventually, Mira storms out, believing the battle lost. Lysa attempts to keep the morale of the women up with prayers and singing.

Later, Shae tells Lysa to return to her chambers and bar her door to keep her safe should Orin breach the keep. Lysa finds Korryn waiting for her inside. He tells her that he is going north and offers to take her with him. She is reluctant to leave the potential safety of being rescued by Orin but he warns her that all men are killers. Orin's force is ultimately defeated by a host of House Greyfel and House Thornfield reinforcements led by Voryn Greyfel.

Lysa attends court as Caryn doles out rewards. Voryn is named Savior of the City and First Advisor, Petran Silvertongue is made Lord of Harenvast and Doran Thornfield is allowed to name a favor from the king. He asks Caryn to marry his sister Lyanne. Caryn asks Lyanne if this is what she wants while Mira looks at Lysa deviously.

Caryn says that he would be honored to return Lyanne's love, but regrets that he is promised to Lysa. Mira suggests Caryn set Lysa aside because of her family's treachery. Caryn accepts the betrothal. Caryn states that he will adore her from this until his last day - the same endearment he once offered Lysa. Lysa turns away, feigning sadness but allowing herself laughter once she has privacy.

Lysa's revelry is halted by Petran consoling her; she pretends to be upset. Petran crushes her hopes of freedom and warns her that her situation has worsened, as she will no longer have the token protection of becoming Caryn's queen but will remain his captive. Petran tells her that she reminds him of her mother and vows to help her return home. Lysa is reluctant to trust him and maintains her facade.

Game of Thrones: Season 3

Lysa and Shae sit on the docks watching ships arrive and depart. Lysa wants to play a game making up stories about where the ships are headed, but Shae, in typical fashion, is uninterested. Lysa tells Shae that she enjoys the game because the truth is either "terrible or boring." Silvertongue arrives and tells Lysa of a new role that he has taken which will allow him to leave Ironport, and offers to smuggle her out of the city. She is hesitant about the idea.

 Lysa discusses the possibility of Silvertongue being in love with her, but Shae warns her that Silvertongue is manipulative and men usually want "one thing" from young ladies. Lyanne and her grandmother Maren Thornfield invite her to lunch in the gardens, where they ask her about Caryn, after being escorted by her chambers by Doran. Lysa is initially too fearful to speak the truth, but eventually breaks down, her eyes blazing, and angrily recounts how Caryn had said he would show her father mercy, only to behead him in front of her, and how he then took her up to the wall and forced her to look at her father's head on a spike. Lysa nervously attempts to backtrack, but Maren tells her that they will never betray her confidence. Lysa admits that Caryn is a "monster."

While the daughter and sister of traitors, Lysa is a very valuable hostage. If Aldric Dorn dies, she becomes "the key to the North" as the Lady of Frosthaven, greatly increasing the power of whichever house she marries into. To prevent Silvertongue from gaining power, Corvyn suggests to Maren that a Thornfield marry Lysa.

While she prays at the Red Keeps's godswood under guard, Lyanne comes and talks to her, telling her that they should see Thornhaven, the Thornfield home, together. Lysa replies that Mira would never allow her to leave Ironport. Lyanne tells her that she could be wife to her brother, and this idea pleases Lysa.

In the castle gardens, Lysa and Lyanne watch Doran spar with his squire. Lysa confidently remarks on his fighting ability, and inquires when she and Doran will wed, as per the Thornfield plot to keep her out of the hands of Silvertongue and/or the Greyfels. Lyanne replies that she will "plant the seed" of the idea after she and Caryn are married. Lysa is skeptical Caryn will let her go but Lyanne is confident he will do it to please her, once she is his wife. However, Doran begins a sexual relationship with his squire, whom he tells of his engagement. Olyvar then passes that information on to his employer: Silvertongue. A short time later, Silvertongue meets with Lysa, offering her a place on his ship that will take him from the capital to the Vale of Arryn. Lysa practices lying for a change, and tells him that they should wait until after Caryn's wedding, primarily because she fears for his safety if the plan fails. A master manipulator, Silvertongue is clearly suspicious of her motives, but doesn't press the matter for the moment. Instead, he says he is touched by her concern for his safety, and insists that she call him "Petran."

The plan to wed Lysa to Doran fails when Mira grows increasingly suspicious of the Thornfields and learns of the proposed marriage between Doran and Lysa through Petran Silvertongue. This news prompts Voryn to arrange for Mira to marry Doran and Davan to marry Lysa in order to curb the ambitions of House Thornfield and to bind two of the other great houses of the Seven Domains closer to the Greyfels.

Still unaware of this plan, Doran and Lysa spend more time together in the following weeks, though Lysa is far more enthusiastic about their impending marriage than he is. Doran admits he's always wanted a big wedding with many guests, fancy food, and a good tournament, though he only seems to remember that there will be a bride when Lysa gives him an expectant look. One subject where they do find common ground is their shared hatred of Ironport, with Doran declaring the capital to be "the most terrible place there is."

Davan decides he might as well dash Lysa's hopes sooner rather than later. He goes to Lysa's chamber and asks for a private word, but Lysa declines to dismiss Shae. Davan gives Shae a carefully coded apology for not telling her in private before breaking the news to Lysa. As she watches Silvertongue's ship depart for the Vale of Arryn, Lysa is devastated to realize that both of her chances to leave Ironport have gone, and she has no choice but to marry into the family that killed her father and is keeping her hostage.

Lyanne consoles her that Davan might be able to make her happy, given his skill as a lover. She concedes that there are worse Greyfels she could be wed to. Lyanne informs Lysa of the variety of a woman's sexual interests, which baffles Lysa, asking if her mother taught her these things. Playing on Lysa's innocence, Lyanne replies "Yes, sweet girl, my mother taught me."

Davan speaks with Lysa before their wedding at the Great Sept of Baelor; though he knows the girl is not thrilled at the prospect of marrying him. Davan promises Lysa that he will not mistreat her, and Lysa agrees there are worse Greyfels she could be wed to.

The ceremony is a grim affair; Caryn smugly escorts Lysa to the altar in place of her father and petulantly removes the stool upon which Davan was to stand on to cloak Lysa in Greyfel colors as part of the ceremony, eliciting snickers from the congregation (though the scowl of Lord Voryn quickly silences them). Davan in the face of humiliation asks Lysa to kneel and he places the cloak around her shoulders. The new High Septon begins the ceremony. Later as man and wife they have their reception dinner, which also proves a grim and miserable affair.

Davan then spends the wedding feast becoming steadily drunker, annoying Lysa, who asks if he will pardon her from their table, which he does. Against Mira's ineffectual protests, Caryn follows Lysa and taunts her that she finally found a way to marry a Greyfel and soon she will have a Greyfel baby. Caryn ponders that it doesn't really matter which Greyfel gets her pregnant and asks if she would like it if he would pay her a visit later when his uncle passes out. Although Lysa doesn't answer him, Caryn sees that she is not enthused by the prospect but he brushes it off and says Meryn Trant and Boros Blount will hold her down.

Caryn then claps his hands and declares it is time for the bedding ceremony, which visibly horrifies Lysa. Davan says there will be no bedding ceremony but Caryn brushes him off, prompting Davan to loudly slam a dagger into a table and threaten his nephew with castration if he doesn't stop. Caryn seethes with outrage but Voryn defuses the situation by telling Caryn that his uncle is clearly quite drunk. Taking the hint, Davan plays along and takes a visibly relieved Lysa out of the room before Caryn can take it any further.

Davan realizes how unhappy Lysa is with him and their marriage, and reassures her that they will not consummate it unless she wants to, even if that means never. The morning after the wedding, Shae is pleased to see that Lysa's bedsheets are unstained as it means that Lysa remains a virgin. Lysa and her new husband find themselves getting along rather well, sharing jokes and a common enemy in Caryn. However, their cordial relationship suffers a crushing blow when Lysa receives news of the deaths of her mother and brother at the Red Wedding, an event orchestrated by Davan's father.

Game of Thrones: Season 4

 Lysa remains despondent over the deaths of her mother and brother. Despite encouragement from Shae and Davan, she refuses to eat, even declining her favorite lemon cakes. She tells Davan that she lies awake all night thinking of how Sera and Aldric died, how Aldric's body was desecrated, and how Sera's body was dumped into the river. Lysa excuses herself from the table, saying she is going to the godswood. When Davan offers that prayer can be helpful, Lysa reveals that she no longer prays - the godswood is the only place she can go where nobody talks to her. While in the godswood, Lysa is watched by Edran and Briana, and later finds herself being followed by someone.  Her pursuer corners her, revealing himself to be Dontos Hollard, whose life she had saved earlier. Dontos expresses his gratitude to Lysa for speaking on his behalf while no one else would and offers her a necklace that had once belonged to his mother, saying it is the last heirloom of House Hollard. Lysa turns it down at first, not wanting to take something with such sentimental value but after urging from Dontos says she will wear it with pride.

Lysa attends a breakfast held before the wedding of Caryn and Lyanne. There, Caryn is presented with a gift from Voryn: the second sword re-forged from Ice, the recently-destroyed ancestral sword of House Dorn and which had been used spitefully to kill her father. Lysa shoots the sword a grim look of understanding when this occurs, and is shocked when the sword is turned on Davan's gift to Caryn, a copy of The Lives of Four Kings. Caryn names his new weapon Widow's Wail, commenting that he will be reminded of Eddran Dorn's beheading each time he uses it. Lysa looks on in obvious grief.

At the end of the wedding itself, Lysa comments bitterly that "we have a new queen." Davan encourages her to look on the bright side: at least she isn't Queen. Later, at the wedding feast, Maren walks up to Lysa to offer her condolences over the Red Wedding and invites her to visit Thornhaven sometime when things settle down. During the exchange, Maren toys with Lysa's hair and Hollard's necklace in a grandmotherly fashion.

Meanwhile, Caryn amuses himself with a farcical "reenactment" of the War of the Five Kings, with each king being played by a dwarf. The dwarf playing Aldric wears a wolf's head that is eventually knocked off by the dwarf playing Caryn. Lysa again looks on in grief. When Davan makes a veiled reference to his nephew's cowardice during the Battle of Blackwater, a furious Caryn pours wine over his uncle's head and orders him to be his cupbearer to humiliate him further. Caryn drops his goblet on purpose and then kicks it under the table when Davan tries to pick it up. Lysa, seemingly feeling pity for Davan, picks up the goblet and hands it to him.

At Lysa's behest, she and Davan try to leave, but Caryn calls them back and demands Davan bring him the cup again. Davan grudgingly obliges but unbeknownst to everyone, Maren had slipped some poison into Caryn's cup. The poison had come from one of the stones on an unaware Lysa's necklace, which Dontos had given her and Maren fiddled with earlier, allowing Maren to retrieve the poison. Later, as Caryn lies dying from being poisoned, Dontos Hollard approaches Lysa and encourages her to leave in order to save her life, a suggestion Lysa takes to heart.

After the events of the Purple Wedding, Lysa and Dontos make a quick escape and get on a boat, leaving the city. Dontos takes Lysa to a ship which turns out to belong to Petran Silvertongue. Silvertongue has Dontos killed to guarantee his silence and destroys the necklace Lysa was wearing. Lysa screams and asks why he killed Dontos. Silvertongue simply states that Dontos was working solely for money and that now, she is safe.

 reveals his role in Caryn's murder to Lysa while en route to the Eyrie.]]
Petran visits Lysa in her cabin and Lysa deduces that he was involved in Caryn's death. After he tries to deny it, he simply ends up telling her everything about the wedding. Lysa is confused because of everything that the Greyfels have done for him and tells him that she doesn't believe that he would risk his life just to confuse the Greyfels. In response, Silvertongue states that he would risk anything to get what he wants. She asks him what he wants and he vaguely says "everything."

Lysa and Petran are walking towards the Bloody Gate and Petran educates Lysa on the Eyrie and its defenses. Lysa uses the disguise as Petran's niece so no one knows who she is. When they enter the main hall, Lysa greets her aunt Lysa as Alayne, but Lysa interrupts her saying that she already knows who she is. However, Lysa cannot call Lysa 'Aunt' in front of anyone apart from Lysa, Petran, and Lysa's cousin Robin, Lysa's son. Despite this, a joyful Robin offers Lysa a tour of the rest of the Eyrie.

Later that night, an annoyed Lysa can't sleep due to Lysa's constant screaming from consummating her marriage to Petran. The next day, Lysa brings Lysa lemon cakes and tells her that Petran brought three crates from the capital for Lysa. She tells Lysa a story about Sera when she was young, getting fat off how much sweet food she had, which makes Lysa feel self-conscious. She stops, but Lysa tells her to carry on. Lysa abruptly turns antagonistic, accusing her of having sex with Petran. Lysa panics and tries to assure Lysa that she is a virgin. Lysa disregards this, grabbing her hand and squeezing hard. Lysa starts crying while saying that all Petran says that she is a stupid little girl, with stupid dreams, who never learns and is a terrible liar. Lysa puts on a polite face again and assures her that it is all alright and after Davan is executed she can marry her cousin Robin. Lysa is not sure what to make of this.

 
After settling into the Eyrie, albeit with discomfort, Lysa wanders into the courtyards alone, as the snow falls around the Vale. The snow, reminding her of home, prompts her to build a snow castle resembling Frosthaven. She has a short-lived friendly conversation with Robin before she snaps at him for ruining her snow castle. This results in a heated confrontation between the cousins, which ends in Robin running back inside, crying after Lysa slaps him. Petran presents himself shortly afterward, and Lysa questions him as to why he really had Caryn killed. She allows herself to smile slightly when he claims that he did it for Sera, the only woman he ever loved. Lysa is shocked when he kisses her on the lips, which Lysa witnesses. She summons Lysa to the High Hall, where she sits over the open Moon Door. Lysa begins to grow concerned when Lysa comments on how far the drop is to the ground. Lysa, enraged over Petran's interest in Lysa, threatens to have her killed and nearly manages to push her out of the Moon Door to her death before Petran intervenes. Lysa watches as he tells Lysa that he only ever loved Sera, before pushing her to her death.

Lysa, as "Alayne," is called to testify before Lord Yohn Royce, Lady Anya Waynwood, and Ser Vance Corbray before Silvertongue can get to her, much to his chagrin. Lysa quickly reveals her true identity and relates the tale of her captivity and flight from Ironport. She then proceeds to truthfully tell of Lysa's mental instability, jealousy, and death, changing only a few small details (she kissed Silvertongue on the cheek and Lysa threw herself through the Moon Door). Lysa breaks down in tears and the lords are convinced, but while none of them are looking, she gives Silvertongue a stony, almost triumphant gaze; this indicates she is finally playing the ruthless game of thrones.

 Later, Silvertongue visits Lysa and asks why she lied on his behalf. Lysa explains that she has no idea what Royce and Waynwood would want from her if Silvertongue were eliminated, but she knows exactly what he wants. Later on, as Silvertongue and Robin prepare to depart on a tour of the Vale, Lysa accompanies them, appearing with noticeably darker reddish-brown hair and garbed in a feathered black dress with a plunging neckline.

Game of Thrones: Season 5

 Lysa, still under the alias Alayne, attends a sword jousting session for Robin at Runestone, along with Silvertongue and Yohn Royce, visibly unimpressed with Robin's sub-par skills at swordsmanship. Lysa notices that Silvertongue receives a raven message. Soon after, they leave Robin in the care of Lord Royce, for further training. On the carriage ride, Lysa questions Petran as to why they are heading west when Lord Royce was told they would be traveling to the Fingers, unsure of his source of distrust. Petran promises her that they are going somewhere far away, where Lysa will be safe from Queen Mira.

On their journey, Lysa and Silvertongue stop for lunch at an inn, where she tries ale for the first time. Lysa can't see what all the fuss is about, although the entire episode is designed to catch Silvertongue off-guard so she can ask about the raven-message he received back at Runestone. Silvertongue doesn't answer the question beyond indicating that the old saying "dark wings, dark words" doesn't apply in this instance. Shortly thereafter, Briana appears unexpectedly and declares herself for Lysa. Silvertongue doubts that Lysa would want a sworn shield who let both of her previous masters die, even when Briana reveals the true, somewhat unbelievable circumstances of Garren's death. Lysa seems inclined to agree with Silvertongue, pointing out that Briana was present at Caryn's wedding, to which the warrior replies that neither of them wanted to be there. Lysa rejects Briana's offer of service and watches as she quickly defeats the guards and escapes.

Lysa and Silvertongue eventually arrive at the ruins of Moat Cailin, where Lysa learns that they are actually returning to Frosthaven and Silvertongue's plan is to have her marry Sable Craven, the recently legitimized son of Aldric Craven, the current Warden of the North. Lysa is initially reluctant to marry into yet another family that betrayed hers, but Silvertongue pacifies her by claiming it will be an opportunity for her to avenge her family.

They arrive at Frosthaven, where Silvertongue introduces Lysa to the Cravens. Aldric and Sable greet Lysa politely, and after a tense moment during which she is repulsed merely by looking at Aldric, Lysa greets them with courtesy, while Myranda, Sable's secret mistress, eyes Lysa with jealousy. She is later brought back to her old room by a servant, who welcomes her home and tells her that "the North remembers." While walking through Frosthaven's courtyard, Lysa unknowingly passes Talon Ironcoast, who had been her father's ward she and her siblings grew up with at Frosthaven. Talon hides his face from her as she passes.

Settling into life at Frosthaven, Lysa visits the Dorn family crypts, re-lighting the votive candles and cleaning up the offerings left by visitors prior to Frosthaven's fall. Silvertongue finds her regarding the statue of her long-dead aunt Kira Dorn. Silvertongue, with minimal commentary, tells Lysa of the events at the tourney at Harenvast, where Rhaegar unhorsed Ser Barristan Selmy, passed by his wife, and gave Kira a crown of flowers blue as frost, all to the shock of the crowd. He then tells Lysa that he's been recalled to Ironport and that keeping Mira waiting much longer would be unwise. Silvertongue explains parts of his master plan to Lysa: Orin will inevitably take the North, and when he does, he will need a Dorn at Frosthaven. Silvertongue is certain Orin will declare Lysa the Wardeness of the North. Even if Orin fails, Sable is already betrothed to Lysa, and thus Lysa, who has learned to manipulate from the very best, can take control of House Craven from within.

Lysa's maid brings a message to her. Consoling Lysa that she still has allies in the North, she tells Lysa to light a candle in the highest window of the Broken Tower if she's ever in trouble. As Lysa wanders around the castle, she runs into Myranda. Myranda puts on a friendly façade, talking to Lysa about her mother's demise. To help Lysa "remember" how things used to be while her family was still living in Frosthaven, Myranda leads Lysa down to the kennels. In the kennels, Lysa finds "Reek" asleep in one of the cages. Awoken by Lysa's arrival, he just shakes his head when Lysa calls him Talon. He warns her that she shouldn't be down there. Seeing Reek in such a pitiable condition, Lysa angrily storms away.

At dinner, Sable is initially well-behaved, toasting his wedding to Lysa, but is soon back to his old self as he forces Reek to apologize to Lysa for murdering Renn and Torvin. With much difficulty, Reek finally mutters an apology. Sable suggests that Reek be the one to give Lysa away at the wedding since he is the closest thing Lysa has to kin; Aldric accepts this suggestion. Aldric and Walda announce Walda's pregnancy, upsetting Sable, which in turn delights Lysa.

On the night of her wedding, Myranda draws a bath for Lysa, during which she advises Lysa not to bore Sable, and tells her about the fates of Violet, Tansy, and a third unseen girl named Kyra, examples of girls who Sable murdered for sport. When Myranda mentions that both she and Sable killed Tansy by hunting her, Lysa becomes angry, asking Myranda how long she has been in love with Sable and if she really expected Sable to marry her. She coolly tells Myranda that she is a Dorn of Frosthaven and will not be intimidated so easily by her, and dismisses her to finish her bath herself, though she is visibly shaken by Myranda's story.

Later, when Talon comes to fetch Lysa for the wedding, she refuses to hold Talon's arm. Talon pleads for her to do so, revealing that Sable will punish him if she doesn't. Lysa coldly asks if he thinks she cares what Sable does to him, and strides past him. Reek then gives Lysa away to Sable, and they wed in front of the Godswood, in a ceremony officiated by Aldric and attended by many Northern lords. Lysa hesitantly takes Sable as her husband, her eyes down, unable to look him in the eye.

After returning to the bedroom, Sable first interrogates Lysa about her virginity and her marriage to Davan, then orders her to take her clothes off. Reek turns to leave but Sable tells him he must stay, taunting him “you grew up with her as a girl, now watch her become a woman." Annoyed by Lysa's hesitancy, Sable angrily rips open the back of her dress and pushes her face-down over the side of the bed. As he unbuckles his clothes, Lysa obediently remains still but begins crying softly. Reek is visibly distraught and begins silently crying himself, as Sable proceeds to rape her, and forcibly consummate their marriage.

Over the next few days, Sable continues to rape Lysa every night, leaving bruises on her arms and body. She effectively becomes a prisoner of the Cravens, who keep her locked in her bedchamber. Reek brings her breakfast, and when she realizes he is there, she tries to talk to him and get him to help her. However, Reek reminds Lysa that she is Sable's wife now and merely tells her to do what he says or else he will hurt her. Lysa protests that Sable hurts her every night and finds it hard to believe that it could possibly get any worse but Reek warns her that it can. Lysa asks Reek what Sable did to break him to such an extent but when he tries to flee, Lysa grabs him by the wrist and angrily reminds him that he betrayed her family, making him apologize profusely. She tells Reek that he can still redeem himself by lighting a candle in the broken tower in order to signal the Dorns' allies she was told about. Though Lysa addresses him as Talon throughout this conversation, Reek keeps repeating his name is Reek, forcing Lysa to grab him by the face and look him directly in the eye. She insists that his name is Talon Ironcoast, the only surviving son of Corvus Ironcoast, and this initially seems to get through to Talon for a time.

During a walk on the battlements, Sable gloats that one day he will be the Warden of the North, with Lysa as his Wardeness. Lysa counters by telling him his position is still threatened by Aldric and Walda's unborn son since this child will be trueborn while Sable is not, as Sable is bastard-born and was legitimized by King Tommen Stoneheart, who Lysa asserts is another bastard.

Lysa learns that her half-brother Kael has recently been elected High Warden of the Veil Guard when Sable tells her that even bastards can rise high in the world, citing Kael's rise in the Veil Guard to High Warden. As they descend into the courtyard, Lysa pockets a corkscrew while Sable reveals that Reek reported the candle to him, and Sable responded by flaying Lysa's elderly maid. He forces Lysa to view her maid's corpse. She is then ordered back to her chambers.

Lysa remains angry at Talon for his betrayal, as well his role in Renn and Torvin's murder. When Talon enters her chambers again to bring her latest meal, she demands an answer for his latest betrayal and coldly expresses approval when he tells her about the torture Sable put him through. Talon shamefully admits he deserved it as he did terrible things, specifically killing "those boys." Enraged by his reference seemingly to her brothers as "those boys" rather than Renn and Torvin, Lysa vehemently demands to know why they should be dead while he still breathes the air, forcing Talon to finally admit that they were not Renn and Torvin but two farm boys. Stunned by this admission, her anger towards Talon cools. However, when she asks if he knows where they might have gone to, he breaks down and leaves the room, fearful of what Sable will do if and when he finds out what he just told her. However, Lysa appears to be left with a sense of renewed hope by the revelation that she has more surviving family left.

Lysa attempts to escape during the battle between the Cravens and Orin Stoneheart by picking the lock on her door with the corkscrew and lighting the candle in the tower. However, Briana and Patrin don't see the candle due to being distracted by Orin's army. In the process of trying to escape, Lysa runs into Myranda and Talon, with the former aiming a bow at her. Myranda says that she has come to escort Lysa back to her chambers, and Talon initially begs Lysa to go with her. Though Lysa is visibly frightened, she stands her ground and refuses to go with Myranda, saying, "If I'm going to die, let it happen while there's still some of me left."

 A bemused Myranda briefly lowers her arrow and admits Sable needs her alive in order to secure his hold on the North. But Myranda adds Sable doesn't need Lysa in one piece to do that, just the "parts" that he needs to produce his heir. Myranda maliciously nocks her arrow again and prepares to at least maim Lysa with it. Before she can release it, however, Talon grabs Myranda, making her fire and miss, and throws her off the battlement, killing her instantly on impact. Talon and Lysa then escape Frosthaven by jumping off the side of Frosthaven's walls, hoping to survive the long fall by landing in the deep snow.

Game of Thrones: Season 6

 
After escaping from Frosthaven, Lysa and Talon flee into the Wolfswood, with the Craven forces in hot pursuit. They cross a stream and briefly take shelter under an uprooted tree, where Talon hugs Lysa to keep her warm. Shortly after, however, they are found by the Craven men and hounds. Talon urges Lysa to flee to the safety of her half-brother Kael at Castle Black. but Lysa refuses to leave Talon behind to the Cravens. Briana and Patrin appear just in time and fight off the soldiers, killing them all. Briana once again offers her service to Lysa, who this time readily accepts, reciting her vows.

On the way to Castle Black, Briana reveals to Lysa how she briefly met Nira near the Bloody Gate. Lysa is delighted to hear that her sister is still alive and well. Talon decides to part with the group and head to the Iron Islands. Lysa implores Talon to come with them as Kael will protect them from Sable but Talon refuses, fearing Kael will have him executed as Talon betrayed Aldric, beheaded their master-at-arms Ser Rodrik, and killed those two boys. Lysa promises Talon she will tell Kael the truth about Renn and Torvin being alive, that Talon didn't kill them, and wants him to join the Veil Guard so all his crimes can be forgiven. Talon responds he still killed two farm boys and reminds Lysa of his crimes against House Dorn, for which Kael will never forgive him. He reveals he does not want to be forgiven as he can never make up for his crimes against Lysa and Kael's family. When Lysa realizes that Talon cannot be convinced to come with them, she bids him farewell, and the two share a tender hug.

 
Lysa, Briana, and Patrin arrive soon at Castle Black where they find Kael. At first, both "siblings" are too stunned to even speak when they see each other, but quickly share a loving embrace after their long and tragic separation. As Kael offers Lysa food, they reminisce about their happy childhood and how they both regret ever leaving Frosthaven. Lysa apologizes to Kael for her dismissive treatment of him while growing up, to which Kael responds that there is nothing to apologise for. When they resolve to stick together, Lysa says the only place they can go now is home. She then asks him to help her reclaim their home from the Cravens. However, Kael tells her that he is tired of fighting, that he had done nothing but fight since he left home, and that he was killed for it. Although Lysa appears to accept his choice, she tells him that she will reclaim Frosthaven and the North, with or without his help.

As Lysa and Kael share a meal with Eddison Tollett, Grunn, Patrin, and Briana, a messenger arrives from Frosthaven with a letter from Sable. In the letter, Sable states that he has Torvin  prisoner at Frosthaven and if Lysa is not returned, he will slaughter every wildling under Kael's protection, let his men rape Lysa, and feed Kael and Torvin to his dogs. Sable signs the letter 'Lord of Frosthaven and Warden of the North,' prompting Lysa to reveal Sable killed his father.

When Grunn asks Lysa how many Sable has in his army and Lysa recalls 5,000, Kael asks Grunn how many he has who are able to fight. Grunn replies that they have only 2,000 men and women in shape to fight, not enough to match Sable's five thousand. Lysa tells Kael that the houses of the North will unite behind him as the son of the last true Warden of the North and they need to go back to Frosthaven to save it and their brother. Kael agrees to take Sable down so they save Torvin and take back their home.

Later, Lysa receives a letter from Petran asking to meet in Mole's Town. Accompanied by Briana, they meet in a ruined house, and Lysa angrily tells Silvertongue the details of her wedding night, asking if he knew the truth about Sable all along. Instead, Silvertongue changes the subject, informing Lysa he has rallied the Knights of the Vale to help her, along with news that her great-uncle Brynden has recaptured Riverrun. Lysa takes an alliance with the Blackfish into consideration, but refuses help from Silvertongue, warning him never to speak to her again. She says she has an army. Petran responds it's her brother's army and adds, "Half-brother."

At a war meeting at Castle Black, Lysa and Kael discuss which of the Northern houses they can rely on to support them. As the Karstarks and Umbers have already sided with House Craven, Ser Maron suggests asking House Manderly. When Kael decides to rally the two dozen houses still loyal to the Dorns, Lysa informs him they can add House Riverstone to the list, but lies about how she acquired the information. After the meeting, Lysa plans to send Briana to Riverrun, as the Cravens could intercept any raven sent there. Briana is worried about leaving her and while Briana feels Kael is trustworthy, she is dubious about the other men. Lysa assures Briana that Kael will keep her safe, he is her brother and she trusts him. Briana counters by asking Lysa why she lied to Kael about meeting with Silvertongue. Before riding south, Lysa gives Kael a new cloak she had made for him styled after their father's.

Lysa and Kael arrive at Bear Island and are summoned before Kira Steelbear. Kael asks for the assistance of House Steelbear in the upcoming battle for Frosthaven to help them save their brother, as House Steelbear has pledged themselves to House Dorn. However, Kira tells him that he is a Snow and Lysa is a Craven. Lysa says that she did what she had to do, but she didn't want it. When Lysa attempts to flatter Kira and Kael explains how he served under Kira's uncle High Warden Jeor Steelbear, Kira wants them to get to the point. Ser Maron steps in and manages to convince Kira to pledge her allegiance, telling of the coming threat of the Frost Wraiths, however, a mere sixty-two men are contributed.

Lysa and Kael later travel to Deepwood Motte, to ask for the assistance of House Glover. They receive a frosty reception from Robett Glover, who has just reclaimed Deepwood Motte from the Ironborn. When Kael fails to bring him around. Lysa tells Robett that the Glovers are pledged to House Dorn, and sworn to fight when called upon. Robett responds he pledged to House Dorn and fought for Aldric Dorn but it cost the Glovers their home and many lives, due to Aldric's lack of stability following his marriage to Talisa. Lysa and Kael are only able to recruit a few Northern houses and only gain a few hundred men. Kael says they should strike Frosthaven immediately before the coming storm and before Sable can gather more men. Lysa says they don't have enough men and wants to go to Castle Cerwyn to try and persuade Lord Cerwyn, however, Kael reflects on their lack of time. When Kael refuses to change his mind, Lysa writes a letter to an unknown party (but does not tell Kael) for reinforcements.

Lysa and Kael meet with Sable on the day before battle. Sable tries to taunt Lysa, but she remains stoic. She asks Sable how do they know if he truly has their younger brother Torvin. Smalljon answers her question by throwing the decapitated head of Torvin's direwolf Shaggydog into their view. As Sable proceeds to tell the Dorns what to do if they want to save Torvin, Lysa cuts him off by telling him that he is going to die the next day and rides off.

After a meeting where Kael discusses battle plans with Grunn and Maron, Lysa admonishes Kael for attacking with too few men, saying that they need a larger force. Kael agrees they don't have enough men but responds this is the largest army they could possibly gather, saying they have pleaded with every house who would have them and the Blackfish can't help. Lysa warns Kael that Sable won't fall into Kael's trap, Sable is the one who lays traps, and Sable has been playing with people all his life. Kael responds he has faced worse than Sable Craven, to which she replies, "You don't know him!" When Kael asks how do they get Torvin back, Lysa tells him will never get him back alive. Kael refuses to give up on their brother and Lysa tells Kael that Sable wants him to make a mistake. Kael asks Lysa what he should do differently but Lysa responds she doesn't know about battles and implores her brother not to do what Sable wants him to do. When they finish arguing, Lysa tells Kael that if Sable wins, she will die before she goes back to him. Kael vows to protect Lysa, to which she cynically replies that no one can keep anyone safe.

Lysa is not present during the premise of the Battle of the Bastards, in which Torvin is killed by Sable. As the battle is nearing an end and all hope seems lost, a distant horn is heard sounding in the distance. Lysa and Petran Silvertongue (to whom Lysa had sent the raven) arrive with the Knights of the Vale to help Kael and his army reclaim Frosthaven. The Highreach forces run down the advancing Craven forces.

After Frosthaven is breached, Lysa enters the Frosthaven courtyard and witnesses Kael defeat Sable in single combat, though Kael momentarily goes into a wild frenzy and begins to pummel Sable, he spares Sable out of respect for Lysa. With the Dorn banners hanging in Frosthaven once more, Lysa sees Torvin's dead body, concluding to ask Kael where Sable is. Lysa confronts a bloodied and bound Sable in the kennels. He tries to goad her by telling her how she will never be rid of him because he is "part of [her] now." Although Lysa does not deny his implication that she herself will always remember him, she calmly retorts that his house is about to become extinct and that all memory of Sable to the rest of the world will soon disappear, just before an ominous growl from one of his hounds reveals his impending doom. Sable responds that his dogs are loyal to him, but Lysa reminds her husband that he revealed he had been starving his dogs for seven days. The dogs approach Sable and he desperately attempts to order them to heel but after a brief moment of hesitation, one of the hounds bites him. As they begin to tear Sable apart while he screams, Lysa walks away with a small smile.

With Frosthaven firmly under Dorn control, Lysa joins Kael on the ramparts as he watches an exiled Seraphel heading south. He tells her that he is having the Lord's chambers prepared for her. Although she protests that he should have it, Kael refuses, telling his sister he is not a Dorn. Lysa tells Kael that he is a Dorn to her, but he still refuses, telling Lysa that she deserves it as the Lady of Frosthaven and because the Knights of the Vale came because of her, resulting in their victory. Kael asks her about Silvertongue and whether they can trust him, to which she insists that they cannot. Lysa apologizes for not telling him about the Knights of the Vale. While he understands why she didn't tell him about Silvertongue, Kael insists that they have to trust each other completely now that they have so many enemies. He kisses her on the forehead and when he turns to leave, Lysa calls him back. She smiles as she tells Kael that a white raven arrived from the Citadel, announcing the arrival of winter as their father had always predicted. Kael returns her smile.

Lysa is later found by Silvertongue in the Godswood. She tells him about how she had prayed in it every day as a little girl, always dreaming of being somewhere else. She then asks what he truly wants, and he tells her what his ultimate ambition is: himself sitting on the Stone Throne with Lysa at his side. He tries to kiss her but she rebukes him. As she walks away, he tells her that although he had officially aligned House Skypeak with House Dorn, reprisals would come from Ironport. Lysa reminds Silvertongue he's declared for other houses before and this did not stop him from switching sides to ensure his own interests. Before she leaves, Silvertongue once again reminds her of Kael's illegitimate birth.

With the Dorn victory, the remaining Northern lords joined by the Vale Lords arrive at Frosthaven to discuss the new situation in the North. Some, such as Lord Yohn Royce, object to the wildlings' presence, but Grunn responds they were invited. The lords of both the North and the Vale claim that they need to return to their homes before the winter hits but Kael warns them that the war is not over - the  true enemy "won't wait out the storm. He brings the storm." At this point, Kira Steelbear stands up and chastises the assembled Northmen for refusing House Dorn's call in their greatest hour of need.

Kira proclaims House Steelbear remembers and says, "The Northmarch remembers. We know no king but the King in the North whose name is Dorn." She says that she doesn't care if Kael is a bastard son because he has Eddran Dorn's blood in his veins. With that, she acclaims Kael as the King in the North, as his "brother" Aldric had been before him. Kira's speech is followed by a similar declaration from both Lord Wyman Manderly of the White Harbor and Lord Glover of Deepwood Motte. The assembled Lords of the North and the Vale acclaim Kael as the King in the North. Kael looks at Lysa, and she smiles back at him, but her smile fades when she glances at Silvertongue (the only other person not cheering), who gives her an unimpressed and knowing look.

Game of Thrones: Season 7

 Kael organizes the North's defense against the Frost Wraiths. He asks Grunn and his people to man the Wall at Eastwatch-by-the-Sea and Grunn agrees. When the issue of the lands and strongholds belonging to the Umbers and Karstarks arises, Lysa says these castles and lands should be given to new families who fought with House Dorn against the Cravens. Kael disagrees, stating that the children of Houses Umber and Karstark cannot be held accountable for the past mistakes of their fathers and elder siblings and the children of these houses will retain their family lands and castles. Lysa disputes Kael's decision in front of Kael's bannermen. Eddran Umber and Alys Karstark pledge fealty to House Dorn.

In private, Kael tells Lysa that though she is his sister and can question his decisions, her publicly doing so in front of the Northern lords and ladies undermines his authority with them. Lysa tells Kael he is a good ruler but implores him not to repeat the past mistakes of Eddran and Aldric. After receiving a message from Mira demanding that Kael bend the knee, Lysa warns Kael not to underestimate the new queen and recommends dealing with her before confronting the Pale Lord. Lysa also remarks that she learned a lot from Mira during her time at Ironport.

 
She is later approached by Silvertongue to see if she is truly "safe" and "happy." Lysa confirms her safety in Frosthaven, but Silvertongue continues to question her in regard to her happiness. Just as he is about to speak again, Lysa dismisses him. Briana arrives and asks her why Petran is still at Frosthaven. Lysa explains that without his help, Frosthaven would still be under Craven control, and assures Briana that she already knows what Silvertongue really wants.

Lysa, Kael, and Maron review a message from Davan, in which Davan asks for Kael to meet with Lyra Ashveil on Ashveil Isle. Lysa questions the letter's legitimacy, worried that it was forged to lure Kael into a trap. Fortunately, he confirms the letter is genuine after reading a familiar line from his first meeting with Davan. Kael asks Lysa for her opinion. Lysa responds that Davan was not like the other Greyfels and he was kind to her. She still affirms that leaving for Ashveil Isle could possibly put her half-brother in danger, despite Davan's letter saying that Lyra's faction only wishes to forge an alliance against Mira, albeit also detailing the military forces that Lyra has at her disposal. After examining the letter for himself, Maron says that three dragons would prove indispensable in their battle against the Frost Wraiths.

At the following meeting with Kael's bannermen, despite Beron Ashmore's letter confirming a large supply of dragonglass on Ashveil Isle, Lysa maintains her opposition to Lyra's request after hearing Kael's intent of accepting the invite to the island. She reminds Kael that their grandfather was also invited to see the Mad King at the cost of his own life. Lysa says Lyra is in Valdros to reclaim the Seven Domains and believes this mission is too great a risk for her brother to take. Kael considers Lysa's suspicions a possibility and knows it is a risk but believes Davan is a good man.

He asserts that forging a treaty with Lyra is an opportunity they can't afford to miss due to the threat of the Walkers, and therefore a risk that he, as King, must take for the sake of saving the North as they need the dragonglass, dragonfire, and weapons to defend themselves against the Frost Wraiths. Lysa, as well as Kael's bannermen, disagree with his decision. Lysa tries to convince Kael to stay by telling him to send an emissary to Ashveil Isle in his place, but Kael insists that he meet Lyra monarch-to-monarch. He does not want to leave the North but is the only one there who has experienced the army of the dead, knows how bad their odds are, and he will never stop fighting for the North's survival. Kael gives Lysa control of the North while he is gone and Lysa accepts the responsibility. As Kael leaves, they bid each other farewell.

With Kael at Ashveil Isle, Lysa and Petran Silvertongue learn from Archivist Wolkan that they have about 4,000 bushels of wheat. Lysa realizes that they don't have enough food for the coming winter. She advocates building granaries to stockpile for a famine. Lysa orders Yohn Royce to see that the armor made for their armies are outfitted with leather to keep warm. While walking, Silvertongue and Lysa talk about the threat of Mira. Petran urges her to fight every battle and to look for threats in every corner.

 
They are interrupted by a guard who tells Lysa that she has received a visitor, who turns out to be her younger brother Renn, accompanied by Meera Reed. Following a tearful reunion, the two siblings retreat to the Godswood where Lysa tells Renn how she wishes Kael was there with them at Frosthaven. Renn agrees, noting that he needs to speak to Kael. When Lysa points out that Renn is the rightful Lord of Frosthaven since he is the last remaining trueborn son of Eddran Dorn, Renn refuses the position, stating that he is the Three-Eyed Harbinger and thus can't be any sort of lord. Lysa remains as the Lady of Frosthaven. Lysa is utterly confused with this prospect, leading Renn reveals he has visions, trying to explain Brynden Rivers's teachings, although this just makes Lysa even more baffled at Renn. Almost eerily and without emotion, Renn demonstrates his newly-acquired power to a skeptical Lysa by describing the night of her horrific marriage to Sable. This startles Lysa, who quickly excuses herself and she walks away in shock and tears.

Two guards inform Lysa that someone claiming to be her sister Nira is trying to gain access to Frosthaven. They brush the girl off as an impostor, revealing she asked for Luwin and Rodrik Cassel. Lysa instantly realizes it must be Nira and knows where she has gone. Lysa finds Nira where she expected, in the crypts looking over their father Eddran's grave. They are happy to see each other but so much has happened to both of them in the past few years that they are at first awkward, unsure of what to say. Nira asks if she has to call Lysa "Lady Dorn" now, to which Lysa firmly insists "Yes" - and then laughs. They smile and hug, though still a bit unsure. Nira notes that Kael left her in charge and smiles when Lysa says that she hopes Kael will be back soon -  he will be so happy to see Nira, remembering how happy Kael was to see her when they were reunited.

The reunited sisters then look sadly on their father's grave statue. Nira says it doesn't really look like him. Lysa acknowledges that everyone who really knew his face is dead. Nira points out they're not. Nira tells Lysa that everyone says Lysa killed Caryn. Lysa explains she actually didn't, though she wished she had. Nira remarks that he was always at the top of her "list." This confuses Lysa, and Nira explains that she'd been keeping a list of everyone she was going to kill - at which they both laugh. Finally, Lysa asks how Nira got back, but Nira only says her road wasn't a pleasant one. Lysa says her own road wasn't either. They hug again, earnestly and warmly. Lysa then informs Nira that Renn is home too.

Lysa brings Nira to Renn in the Godswood, where he is lost in thought by the Weirwood heart tree. Nira hugs Renn, who remains somewhat detached even at the sight of Nira. Renn says he isn't surprised Nira is alive because he saw her at the Inn at the Crossroads. Nira is confused, and Lysa explains that Renn is having "visions" now. Renn says he thought Nira was going to Ironport, and when Lysa asks why Nira would head there of all places, he again startles them both by revealing Mira is on Nira's list of names. Lysa asks Nira who else is on her list. Nira responds that most of these people, aside from Mira, are dead already.

Lysa and Nira remark on the Embersteel dagger in Renn's lap, and Renn explains that Silvertongue gave it to him. Nira is confused as to why a common cutthroat would have a rare, priceless blade of Embersteel. Renn matter-of-factly says that someone very wealthy wanted him dead, and gave it to the assassin. Lysa is mistrustful of Silvertongue and explains Silvertongue would never give anyone anything unless he was expecting something in return. Renn says that doesn't matter because he doesn't want it. Instead, Renn hands the blade to Nira and says she can have it because he feels it's "wasted on a cripple." Lysa looks down. Lysa, Renn, and Nira - three of the remaining Dorn children - proceed back to Frosthaven's castle courtyard together, with Nira pushing Renn in his wheelchair.

Sometime later, Lysa and Silvertongue watch on silently from the walkway above as Nira and Briana. Briana goes easy on her at first, but then Nira completely outmaneuvers Briana using the water dance training she received from Syrio Forel, augmented by her training with the Nameless Order. Ultimately, they reach a stalemate, with each of them holding a blade at the others' throat. Nira takes her leave of Briana, both mutually impressed, as Lysa looks down baffled at how her sister reached such a deadly skill level.

Later, in the Frosthaven throne room, Lysa oversees a meeting of the Northern lords. Complaining that the King in the North should stay in the North, Robett Glover and Yohn Royce propose that she take power in the absence of her half-brother Kael. However, Lysa insists Kael is their true ruler who is doing what he believes is right for their people and that she is merely his regent. Following the meeting, Lysa confides her frustration in the Northern lords with Nira. Nira thinks that she should not let the lords get away with insulting her and suggests assassinating them. Lysa disagrees with Nira's idea to kill the troublesome lords, preferring a more diplomatic approach so as not to lose their support. Nira tells Lysa to admit that she is harbouring thoughts of permanently ruling Frosthaven if Kael doesn't return. Disturbed and disheartened by Nira's suspicions of her, Lysa tells Nira that she has "work to do."

Later, Nira presents the letter that Lysa had written to their late brother Aldric urging him to come and bend the knee to Caryn. Lysa replies that Mira forced her to do it under duress. Nira counters that she was not tortured and that she saw Lysa at their father's execution; Lysa retorts that Nira did nothing to stop their father's execution either. Nira chastises Lysa for betraying their family but Lysa responds that they have only returned to Frosthaven because of her, while Nira travelled the world in pursuit of her own agenda. Lysa adds that their half-brother Kael was saved from defeat when Petran Silvertongue and the Knights of the Vale came to their rescue and insists Nira would not have survived the torments she endured at the hands of Caryn and Sable.

Lysa demands to know where Nira found the letter and chides her younger sister that Mira would be pleased to see them fighting, but Nira is still bitter towards Lysa. She realizes that while Kael would understand the difficult circumstances Lysa was under when she wrote the letter, Lysa is afraid the Northern lords will discover it and turn on her, including Kira Steelbear. Nira adds that Kira is younger than Lysa was when she wrote this letter but argues Kira wouldn't agree with Lysa's defense that she was a child at the time. While recognizing that Lysa wrote the letter out of fear, a bitter Nira says that she prefers to embrace anger over fear.

Later, Lysa asks Petran Silvertongue about where Nira got the letter from, unaware that Silvertongue orchestrated the entire incident. Lysa tells Petran that she is commanding 20,000 men who answer to Kael but not to her. Petran tells Lysa that the men will trust her because she can rule. Lysa does not trust the loyalty of the Northern lords, citing their history of switching sides. She counters that the discovery of the letter will turn her liege lords and men against her. Lysa confides in Petran about her strained relations with Nira. Petran suggests that Lysa talk with Briana Stoneguard because she has sworn to protect both of Sera's daughters from harm. Trusting Silvertongue, Lysa accepts his advice.

The following morning, Archivist Wolkan informs Lysa that they have received a letter from Mira. Lysa meets with Briana, who advises her not to leave Frosthaven. Instead, Lysa decides to send Briana as her representative since she could reason with Edran. Briana warns that it is too dangerous for her to leave Lysa alone at Frosthaven with Petran. Lysa insists that her guards and men are loyal to her but Briana warns that Petran might be bribing them behind her back. Briana offers to leave her squire Patrin Blade, whose swordsmanship has improved, but Lysa insists that she can take care of herself.

Lysa enters Nira's quarters and opens a leather case containing several "faces," including the late Walder Frey's face. Nira catches her sister pilfering through her personal effects. When Lysa tells Nira that her men are loyal to her, Nira mockingly retorts that they are not here. Nira tells Lysa that she obtained the faces from the Nameless Order of Silverhaven and admits she spent time training to be a Faceless Man. She forces Lysa to play the lying game and begins by asking if she thinks that Kael is the rightful King. Lysa demands that Nira tell her what the "faces" are.

Nira replies that when they were young they always aspired to be other people. Lysa wanted to be a queen while Nira herself wanted to be a knight. In the end, neither of them got what they wanted. Nira says that the faces allow her to become someone else and toys with the idea of assuming Lysa's face and status. Nira approaches Lysa with her dagger and muses at the prospect of becoming the Lady of Frosthaven. However, Nira relents and leaves a disturbed Lysa alone with the dagger.

Lysa and Petran discuss Kael's decision to bend the knee to Lyra. Lysa feels betrayed by Kael, and Petran suggests that Lysa would make a better ruler than Kael. Lysa tells Petran that Nira would turn against her if she tried to usurp Kael's power, and Petran goads her, planting the idea that Nira wants to kill Lysa and take her place as Lady of Frosthaven.

However, still unsure of Petran's intentions, Lysa visits Renn. From this, she learns of the Sight, in which Renn proves Petran's ultimate guilt in the War of the Five Kings. This proves everything Petran has done to gain power: his murder of Kael Arryn, his attempt to kill Renn, his betrayal of Eddran and his attempt to turn Nira and Lysa against each other.http://viewers-guide.hbo.com/game-of-thrones/season-7/episode-7/people/100/petyr-littlefinger-baelish 

Lysa sits with Renn when Nira is brought into the Great Hall. Petran watches as Lysa reads the charges of murder and treason, before Lysa addresses him directly, revealing that the trial is actually for him. She accuses Petran of murdering Lysa Arryn, convincing her to poison her husband and sending a letter to the Dorns blaming the Greyfels for the crime, and conspiring with Mira and Caryn to imprison and execute Eddran Dorn.

Petran denies the charges, but Renn reveals that he has seen Petran's betrayal in his visions. Lysa is unfazed by Petran's begging and thanks him for all his lessons, promising she will never forget them. Nira then slits Petran's throat, and Lysa watches as he dies.

On the battlements, Lysa confides in Nira that she believed Petran really did love her, and Nira assures her that she did the right thing. Nira concedes that she couldn't have survived what Lysa survived, but Lysa disagrees, claiming that Nira is the strongest person she knows. Nira and Lysa remember their father's words about looking out for one another, and each confides how much they miss him.

Game of Thrones: Season 8

Lysa stands on Frosthaven's ramparts as the combined Dorn and Ashveil forces march towards the castle, and stares in cautious awe as Drogon and Rhaegal fly overhead. She greets Kael as he arrives in the courtyard, and mentions that Nira is "lurking somewhere" when Kael notices her absence. He introduces her to Lyra as the Lady of Frosthaven, and the two women exchange a civil but tense greeting.

Later, in the castle's great hall, Lysa sits at the high table along with Kael, Lyra, and Davan. Davan tries to calm those present who are displeased at Kael bending the knee to Lyra; he says that they have assembled the largest army ever seen. Lysa coolly undercuts Davan by asking how she is supposed to feed an army that size, as well as two full-grown dragons. When she sarcastically asks what dragons eat, Lyra replies, "Whatever they want."

Lysa later converses with Davan privately for the first time since they last saw each other at Caryn's wedding; Davan calls the wedding "a miserable affair," though Lysa sardonically remarks, "It had its moments." She also calls Davan out for believing that Mira will honor the pledge to send the Greyfel forces north. She is disappointed in Davan, saying she used to think Davan was the cleverest man she ever met.

Lysa shows Kael the message that Robett Glover will be remaining in Deepwood Mott with his troops, as he never pledged to fight for a Ashveil. She expresses her disapproval of Kael giving up his crown to Lyra. Kael replies titles don't matter in the face of the Pale Lord and the army of the dead and they don't stand a chance against them without Lyra's help. Although Lysa assures Kael that her faith in his judgement has not waivered, she bluntly asks him if he truly bent the knee to save the North, or because he loves Lyra.

When Edran arrives at Frosthaven, Lysa - now clad in armor - is once again seated at the high table with Kael and Lyra. The two women harshly berate Edran for his past actions and question whether his loyalty to their cause is genuine. Only when Briana vouches for Edran does Lysa trust him, and Lyra allows his sword to be returned to him. 

Later, Lyra speaks privately with Lysa, addressing some of the thorny political issues involved in their alliance. When Lysa notes Kael's love for Lyra and is concerned Lyra is manipulating him, Lyra openly confesses her love for Kael, assuring Lysa she has no ulterior motives. Although a greater understanding appears to develop between the two women, Lysa remains firm in her conviction that the Northerners will never truly accept an outsider as their ruler again, and bluntly asks Lyra what her plans for the North are once the dead have been defeated.

The awkward moment is interrupted by Archivist Wolkan announcing the arrival of Talon and his men. In the great hall, Talon kneels to Lyra and asks Lysa's permission to stand with the Dorns against the army of the dead, at which Lysa strides forward and embraces him. The two are later seen having a meal in the courtyard while awaiting the call to arms.

When the army of the dead and the army of Frosthaven finally face each other across the battlefield, Lysa and Nira observe from the castle walls. When the initial charge of Kolvari screamers is easily repelled and the wights advance, Nira orders Lysa to go down into the crypts and hands her a dragonglass dagger. Lysa says she doesn't know how to use it, and Nira repeats the words that Kael said when he gave Nira Needle: "Stick 'em with the pointy end." Down in the crypts, Davan is restless about not being able to help, but Lysa firmly reminds him that they are all down there for a reason; they won't be any help on the battlefield, and doing nothing is the most heroic - if the most difficult - thing they can do.

Impressed by her logic, Davan sardonically remarks that they should have stayed married. Lysa humorously acknowledges that he was the best relationship she ever had, but his loyalties to Lyra would mean that they could never remain together, which is taken as an offence to Lyra by Alindra. As the army of the dead breaches Frosthaven's walls, the Pale Lord reanimates all that have fallen in the battle so far, and his spell extends to the many Dorn bodies housed in Frosthaven's crypts. In the crypts, the living scramble to escape and Lysa ends up hiding behind a large stone casket with Davan. The two look desperately into each other's eyes, and Lysa pulls out the dragonglass dagger given to her by Nira.

An unspoken understanding passes between her and Davan, who tearfully kisses her hand as if in farewell. Before she can act, however, Nira manages to slay the Pale Lord in the godswood, causing the entire army and the remaining Frost Wraiths to shatter and collapse. Lysa and the other survivors make their way out of the crypt to survey what remains.

The survivors of the battle later gather in front of Frosthaven's walls to light the funeral pyres of all who gave their lives in defense of the living. Lysa tearfully places a pin bearing the House Dorn direwolf onto Talon's body before lighting his pyre herself. During the celebration feast that follows, she makes her way to the table where the Hound is seated.

The two discuss the many trials they've suffered since their last meeting, and Clegane reminds Lysa that she could have been spared many horrors if she'd left with him when he offered. While not downplaying her own tragedies, Lysa coolly responds that without those horrors, she would still be the "little bird" Mira thought her to be - ignorant of the cruelty of the world and unable to fend for herself.

Lysa later attends a war council in preparation for the continued war against Mira. She advises giving the armies time to rest before engaging in a new conflict, only to cause a tense moment with Lyra who insists on attacking Mira as soon as possible, coolly telling Lysa that it's time for the North to reciprocate. Along with Nira and Renn, Lysa then meets with Kael in the godswood. Kael is angry at his sisters for their treatment of Lyra, explaining they'd all be dead without her. Lysa protests that Nira is the one who killed the Pale Lord and Kael points out Lyra's armies gave their lives to defend against the Army of the Dead. Lysa acknowledges this but doesn't think it's reason enough to automatically submit to Lyra but Kael says he pledged the North to Lyra. Nira tells Kael she respects his decision, it was the right thing to do, but it's also right for herself and Lysa to distrust his Queen. Kael wants them to get to know Lyra but Nira doesn't want to either, Lyra isn't one of them. Kael tells her they won't make many allies if they're only friends with the people she grew up with. Nira is fine with this because all she needs is their family, the four of them. Kael tells them he's not a Dorn, but Lysa and Nira both insist he is Eddran's son and their brother. Pained, Kael reveals he needs to tell them something and swears them to secrecy. Lysa balks but Kael asks her to do it because they're family. When both sisters swear, Kael asks Renn to reveal his true parentage: the son of Kira Dorn and Rhaegar Ashveil, and the subsequent heir to the Stone Throne.

Later, Davan finds a shaken Lysa looking at Lyra's dragons in the sky. She asks why Davan would choose to follow Lyra. Davan replies that Lyra loves Lysa's brother, but Lysa says it doesn't mean she'll be a good queen. Davan notes Lysa's dislike of Lyra; but says that; a good relationship between the North and the capital has been beneficial. Lysa doesn't think this will be a problem; since Kael is the Warden of the North and he loves the Queen. Davan realizes something is wrong and asks Lysa to look at him. He urges her to find common ground with Lyra as Kael won't be spending much time in the North from now on. Lysa wonders what Davan is worried about as Lyra seems to have everything she needs. When Davan urges Lysa not to provoke Lyra, Lysa realizes he is afraid of her. She anxiously tells Davan she doesn't want Kael going south, the men in her family never do well there. Davan agrees but quips that Kael once told him he's not a Dorn. This rattles Lysa, prompting Davan to ask if she's alright. He tries to convince her of Lyra but Lysa is not receptive. As Davan leaves, Lysa has a change of heart and goes against her promise to Kael, telling Davan that there is somebody better for the Stone Throne.

Lysa later receives word of the ambush on the Ashveil fleet in which Rhaegal was killed, while Alindra is captured. She tells Edran that she wanted to see his sister executed, but that it will likely not happen due to this setback.

Several weeks following the Battle of Ironport, after which Lyra lays waste to its surrendered populace and she is assassinated by Kael to stop her destruction, Lysa journeys to Ironport. She takes command of the northern forces and stations them outside of the city. She does this to ensure the safety of herself and the other lords and ladies inside Kings's Landing, where she attends a great council in the dragonpit to decide the future of Valdros with the rest of the council. While Renn is elected as King of the Andals and the First Men, Lysa holds to her convictions and requests that the North become an independent realm once more, to which Renn agrees. Kael is sentenced to rejoin the Veil Guard, and Nira intends to sail west of the Sunset Sea. After saying her goodbyes to her siblings, Lysa returns to Frosthaven and is crowned Queen in the North.

Personality

When she lived at Frosthaven with her family, Lysa grew up as the eldest daughter of a Great House, trying to emulate her mother's example of a "proper lady" from the southern courts. Lysa's devotion to the traditional, refined "feminine virtues" caused friction between her and her blunt, tomboyish younger sister Nira, with whom she had a sibling rivalry. As a little girl, Lysa naively believed in the tales and epic romances in which every princess gets her honorable knight in shining armor to sweep her off her feet. Lysa was infatuated with the traditional romances about mythical figures like Kaelquil, and historical figures like Duncan Ashveil. Her greatest goal in life was to be married to a heroic and handsome prince, sitting around with other noblewomen eating lemon cakes while gossiping about the goings-on at court.

Lysa's innocent, childhood infatuation with the ideals of princesses and knights made her tragically susceptible to the manipulations of the Greyfels. She held the blind belief that all queens and princes are kind and truthful, as if inherently a result of their titles, when Mira just happened to be a woman who married a king to secure a marriage alliance, and Caryn just happened to be her son. Without real cause, she blindly loved Caryn with all her heart and trusted and admired Mira, only for them to repay her love and trust with cruel abuse, with Caryn having her father beheaded before her very eyes.

Afterwards, Lysa has a harrowing experience as a prisoner of the Greyfels, a plaything for the psychopathic Caryn to have publicly beaten by his guards for petty amusement. Her shock at the death of her father was only later deepened at the news of how her mother and brother Aldric were horrifically killed at the Red Wedding and their corpses desecrated. She was visibly elated upon hearing that Nira, Renn, and Torvin were actually still alive, and though she took mostly after her mother and had a somewhat distant relationship with Kael, she loved him all the same. She was surprised to hear that Kael had become High Warden of the Veil Guard, and Kael was the first person she turns to for shelter after escaping Frosthaven, aware that he would protect her from Sable.

Lysa subsequently escapes Ironport to the Vale with Silvertongue, and her experiences have clearly changed her personality. She had to learn from painful experience how to lie to survive at Caryn's court, saying one thing but meaning another and manipulating people to her own ends as best she could. No longer under constant control by Caryn and Mira's guards, she is in her own way beginning to mature into her own power and influence as a political force.

The numerous tragedies she has suffered, and the crimes against herself and her family, have also darkened her personality turning her more ruthless, though not quite cruel. This shows when she refuses to take Talon's arm when he comes to escort her to the Godswood to marry Sable and coldly asks if he thinks she cares what Sable will do to him if she doesn't. She also later expresses approval of what Sable did to Talon, now Reek, and declares she would do the same. Once reclaiming Frosthaven, Lysa feeds her abusive husband, Sable to his own hounds, even smiling as it happened.

However, despite all the suffering that she has been through, Lysa appears to have retained a certain degree of compassion that is also demonstrated in her multiple attempts at reaching out to Talon after Talon admits that he did not kill Renn and Torvin and they are alive. After Talon helps her escape from Frosthaven, Lysa once again sees Talon as a surrogate brother and promises she will not let Kael execute him when Talon fears Kael will have him killed for his crimes. Lysa also becomes more compassionate and a loyal sister to Kael and apologizes for being "awful" when they were children. When she faces Myranda for the last time prior to her escape from Frosthaven, Lysa was about to allow the psychopathic girl to shoot her so that she could die with as much of herself as was remaining. She has also become significantly more brave, courageous and is developing nerves of iron.

Lysa's sufferings have made her stronger and more mature, but also more war-like. Caring less for the traditional feminine virtues she used to praise as a child, Lysa moves against Sable in order to take back Frosthaven and the North, and outright rejects his conditions for saving her brother Torvin, knowing full well he would never keep his word and instead tells him that he will die the next day. Her experiences with the Greyfels have enabled her to watch in grim satisfaction as Sable is torn apart and eaten by his own hounds. This contrasts her visible horror in Season 1 upon seeing the violence when she first arrived in Ironport, where she is distressed at Gorran Stonehound's violence against Ser Hugh and Doran Thornfield and faints when her father is abruptly beheaded in front of her. Lysa is also effective as Lady of Frosthaven and Kael's regent, devoting her efforts to maintaining order and preparing the North for winter, for which she earns the respect of many Vale and Northern lords. 

Due to the harrowing experiences of the Dorn children, Lysa experiences a development in the relationships with her surviving siblings when they are reunited. Though she and Kael were the least close of the Dorn children, they love one another as siblingshttp://www.newsherald.com/zz/entertainment/20160519/game-of-thrones-not-even-kit-harington-knew-about-that-stark-reunion-at-first  and their relationship as brother and sister become stronger when they are reunited. While Lysa will argue with Kael, she speaks to him as an equal, wants to see him safe, and Turner observes Lysa's relationship with Kael has restored Lysa's faith in men.https://youtu.be/cxSddcCh36I?t=341  While Kael remains a protective older brother to Lysa and likewise wants her safe, he also recognizes Lysa's intelligence and her adeptness as a leader, placing the North in her charge as his regent. Lysa and Nira did not get along as children and though they love each other, experience a rocky start after their reunion in Season 7 due to their experiences. Nonetheless, they come to recognize new strengths in one another: Nira's skills as a combatant and Lysa's abilities as Lady of Frosthaven. By the end of Season 7, their relationship grows stronger and they develop a new closeness as sisters. Lysa is relieved and happy to be reunited with Renn but is unsettled by the changes he has undergone as a result of becoming the Three-Eyed Harbinger. Regardless, she asks for Renn's help in using his powers to look into Silvertongue's past and upon learning the truth, decide to put Silvertongue on trial to answer for his crimes.

Quotes

Spoken by Lysa

 

  

Spoken about Lysa

Family

Paternal

Maternal

Behind the scenes

*Sophie Turner has naturally baby blonde hair. So to get that Tully red, her hair had to be dyed for Lysa's auburn (reddish brown) hair. Kevin Alexander uses a mix of four different watercolor shades. Since Turner was only thirteen or fourteen when she started on the show, Alexander didn't want to use peroxide on her. The color lasts about ten days and needs to be touched up constantly.
*After the filming of the episode in which Lysa's direwolf, Lady, is executed, Turner adopted the dog that played Lady, a Northern Inuit named Zunni. Series author George R.R. Martin confirmed this on his blog.

In the books

In A Song of Ice and Fire, Lysa enjoys conventional "ladylike" pursuits, with a keen interest in music, poetry, singing, literature, history, dancing and embroidery. She was taught to play the High harp by Lady Leonette. She has a romantic notion of handsome princes and knights fighting honorably for love and loyalty. She is sharply contrasted with her far less idealistic and tomboyish younger sister, Nira. She is described as traditionally beautiful, taking after her mother's family with her high cheekbones, deep blue eyes, and thick soft auburn hair.

Due to a time jump which was originally planned in the books but later dropped, Lysa is only 11 years old when the narrative begins. Author George R.R. Martin himself has said that he would have aged-up the younger characters had he initially known he would abandon the time-jump. Therefore, in the TV series' timeline, all of the younger characters including Lysa have been aged up two years from the books. Thus, Lysa is 13 years old in Season 1, and 14 years old in Season 2. Keeping in mind that in medieval times, the age of maturity was lower than it is today, this younger age in the books isn't quite as unusual as it sounds, but due to the abandoned time jump, this still causes some discrepancies. For example, in the books, Caryn's torment of Lysa doesn't have quite the same inherent sexual tension to it because they're both two years younger. Lysa directly states that she is 13 years old in dialogue from the pilot episode of Season 1. On her wedding night with Davan Greyfel, however, she says that she is 14 years old when she should be 15 years old because it's been two years since the pilot episode. It is possible that she either simply had not reached her nameday and turned exactly 15 yet, or that she was lying to try to shame Davan before he took her virginity (though as it turned out, Davan still refused to consummate the marriage, morally repulsed at being forced to marry such a young girl).

A subplot in the books which is only somewhat alluded to in the TV series is that in her desperation, Lysa starts latching onto the idea of Korryn Stonehound as her protector from Caryn or a potential source of an escape attempt.

In sharp contrast to Nira, Lysa is very timid, passive and submissive, waiting for things to happen rather than take active actions. She steps out of her passivity only on rare occasions, like the time she intervened to save Ser Dontos or her momentary intent to kill Caryn, but these are exceptions; during the entire time she was held captive at the Red Keep, she did not make even the slightest effort to find a way to escape. 

In the books, Lysa is shown to be partially responsible for her father's arrest by revealing to Mira his plan to have his daughters leave the capital city. Given that she is only a naive eleven-year-old, and that Eddran didn't give her any explanation for why he wanted to send her away from Ironport, she assumed he was simply fighting with Mira over some matter of state. Still enraptured with the idea of staying and marrying Caryn, Lysa thought that if she told Mira she would then smooth over whatever disagreement they had. Yet the main fault is Eddran's, for foolishly revealing his cards to Mira, and even more foolishly - putting his trust in Silvertongue and revealing his plan to him. Thus Silvertongue and Mira knew what Eddran planned to do and had time to prepare counter-measures, regardless of what Lysa told Mira.

When dealing with cruel or frightening people, Lysa uses her courtesy as an armor, as taught by septa Mordane, but it does not protect her from Caryn's cruelty. She is often beaten by any of the Stone Throne Guard (except the Hound), whenever Caryn feels she needs to be taught a lesson. On one occasion, Caryn decides that beating Lysa is not enough, and orders Meryn Trant and Boros Blount to strip her; only Davan's intervention prevents something worse.

Lysa technically gained the title of "princess" when her brother Aldric was declared the new King in the North. While her brothers Renn and Torvin use the title of "prince" among the Northerners at Frosthaven, Lysa's storyline involves her being held as a prisoner at King Caryn's court in Ironport. The Greyfels refuse to acknowledge the North's claims of independence so they don't refer to Lysa as "princess." Meanwhile, Lysa is in fear for her life and is subjected to frequent beatings at the hands of the Stone Throne Guard at Caryn's whim, so she doesn't refer to herself as "princess" for fear of angering her captors. Thus her title is rarely, if ever, invoked (unless Aldric and Sera in the Northern camp are discussing her captivity).

Unlike in the show, Lysa does not befriend Shae and does not trust her. Shae does whatever Lysa tells her, but sometimes, she gives Lysa insolent looks. Lysa has no idea why Shae looks at her this way, for Lysa does not know Shae is her husband Davan's lover.

Following Lysa's escape from Ironport, Silvertongue takes her first to his ancestral home at the Fingers. There he reveals Lysa part of the scheme to murder Caryn; he does not reveal what his motive was, nor why it was necessary to involve her in the scheme.

As a precaution, Lysa's hair is dyed black (as her auburn hair would reveal her as a Tully) and is given the alias of "Alayne Stone", Silvertongue's bastard daughter who recently decided to seek him out after having been entrusted to the Creed of the Seven. Lysa keeps her true identity hidden whilst in the Vale; starting from her second POV chapter of A Feast for Crows, she is no longer described as "Lysa" in the text but as "Alayne," even in her own thoughts. In the show, she is introduced simply as "Alayne", a niece of Petran, who makes only a vague attempt to hide her hair; she later dyes it of her own volition.

Lysa has no idea that Silvertongue was involved in her father's downfall, but knows well that he is treacherous and cannot be trusted. She separates "Silvertongue" from "Petran" in her mind: Petran is the kind man who saved her from the Greyfels, and who loved her mother, but she knows Silvertongue exists within him, and he was never her friend: she remembers him smiling slyly and whispering in Mira's ear; she reminds herself that whenever she was in danger, Davan and the Hound were the ones who saved her, not him; she knows about his part in Kael Arryn's death (Lysa reveals that in her presence); she saw him killing two people - Ser Dontos and her aunt - the latter by his own hands.

Lysa's near-death experience demonstrates her submissive personality very clearly: when Lysa accuses her of seducing Silvertongue, all the courage Lysa gathered prior to the confrontation instantly vanishes. Lysa orders her to open the Moon Door, and she complies, foolishly thinking that her deranged aunt would let her go, thus nearly getting herself killed (though she puts up some fight). Only Silvertongue's intervention saves her.

In sharp contrast to the show, Lysa does not become full of confidence overnight following her aunt's death. She does not lie to the lords about Lysa's death at her own behest, but under the command of Silvertongue; she shivers in fear when Nestor Royce inquires about Lysa, barely managing to lie that Marillion was the one who pushed Lysa to her death, and nearly faints when Silvertongue says "it was I who killed her" (as if talking metaphorically); during the meeting with the Lords Declarant, she is overcome with fear when Yohn Royce looks at her closely and asks "Do I know you, girl?" (it is unclear if he recognizes her).

During her time in the Vale, Lysa becomes more astute in political affairs as the protégé of Silvertongue. This subtle change in her personality is different from the more drastic one in the show. She watches Silvertongue's manipulations of Lord Nestor Royce and the Lords Declarant, but generally remains timid, passive and obedient as ever: she never questions Silvertongue's actions and plans; when he tells that he intends to wed her to Harrold Harding, she does not object even slightly (only pointing out that she is still married to Davan); she has no idea about the current events out of the Vale and particularly in the North (except she learns her half-brother Kael has become the High Warden of the Veil Guard), that Edmure is held captive at the Twins, and that Riverrun is under siege; she does not even know who currently holds her home and does not bother to ask; she does not take any actions to help either her uncle or her great-uncle. 

Although Silvertongue does not intend to keep Lysa to himself, there are hints he lusts after her, perhaps because she resembles her mother: he occasionally gives her not-so-fatherly kisses, and once touched her left breast, while telling her "You are Alayne, and you must be Alayne all the time. Even here. In your heart."

Lysa finds her cousin Harald Arryn (in the show he is called "Robin") pitiful and repulsive. After the incident with the snow castle, she thinks angrily that even Caryn had more spine than Harald. Still, after Lysa's death, Lysa feels sorry for him and treats him patiently as she can. At one occasion, he demands "a hundred lemon cakes and five tales", Lysa's patience nearly runs out and she feels like giving him "a hundred spankings and five slaps", but restrains herself (unlike in the show). Harald, who has no idea of "Alayne"'s true identity, initially declares he hates her for ripping his doll, but after Lysa's death he forms a strong attachment to her, even sleeping in her bed at night as he used to do in his mother's. Lysa wouldn't have minded if he only slept, but since he tries to nuzzle at her breasts and wets the bed during his seizures - she asks Lothor Brune to lock his door.

In a sample chapter of The Winds of Winter, Harald tells Alayne she should marry him. Lysa, who does not have the heart to tell Harald her negative opinion of him, tells him gently but firmly it is out of the question: as the Lord of the Eyrie and Defender of the Vale, he must wed a highborn lady and father a son - not a bastard, otherwise his bannermen will claim that Silvertongue made him do that, and put her and "her father" to death. In the chapter, preparations are being made for a tourney, as suggested by Lysa to Silvertongue as a means of orchestrating a meeting between Lysa and Harrold Hardyng. Lysa finds Harold attractive, but immediately reminds herself the bitter lesson she learned long ago - not to judge people by their physical appearance; she recalls that Caryn was comely but a monster, but Davan was unattractive but kind to her. Harrold initially speaks to her rudely, calling her "Silvertongue's bastard", nearly moving her to tears; later he apologizes. Lysa treats him courteously but coldly, as Silvertongue instructed her - to charm Harrold but not to look too eager. To test his honesty, Lysa asks him about his bastard daughters, and he answers openly. Harrold asks to wear her favor in the tourney, but she refuses, claiming it is promised to another.

Lysa's Season 5 story arc diverged significantly from that in the books. Silvertongue does not arrange for her to marry Sable Craven, whom she never meets, and indeed she does not even leave the Vale. Instead, she is betrothed to Harrold Hardyng, Harald Arryn's presumptive heir, should the weak and sickly Harald die prematurely, as Silvertongue expects (perhaps he intends to "help" Harald die). His plan is to wed Lysa to Harold, and for Lysa to reveal her identity to everyone present during the wedding, in order to gain the support of the knights in the Vale for winning her birthright back. Silvertongue says nothing about the Cravens or any military campaigns, since his plans will take several years to come to fruition - the marriage cannot take place before Harald dies, Lysa is widowed and Mira is done, and there is no way to know in advance who will hold Frosthaven and rule the North at that future point. 

In the books, Lysa's storyline in season five is played out by her best friend Jeyne Poole, who is forced to masquerade as Nira Dorn. Jeyne's story is almost identical to Lysa's season five storyline, although it is not Briana who offers Jeyne her help if she needs it (indeed, Briana has not met the Dorn girls by the point the books reached). Instead, it is Mance Rayder who infiltrates Frosthaven as a bard to rescue her on the orders of Kael, Lysa's half-brother. Also, Jeyne never tries to escape Frosthaven on her own and does not attempt to force Talon into helping her as she is mentally in a much worse state than Lysa is in while Lysa is married to Sable in the show. In the books, while Jeyne is being tormented, Lysa is safe in the Vale, surrounded by friendly people like Myranda Royce and Mya Stone (the elder of Harald's bastards).

Lysa believes herself the last of the Dorns, except for Kael, after hearing the news about the alleged deaths of Renn and Torvin and about the Red Wedding. Although she has no idea what has become of Nira, she presumes her dead, too.

Lysa does not make an appearance in the fifth novel A Dance with Skyrends. She is mentioned several times by various characters: Talon remembers a time when he had thought that Eddran might marry him to Lysa and claim him for a son, but realizes that had only been a child's fancy; Davan speaks about her with his dwarf companion Penny; Mira recalls that Petran Silvertongue had offered to wed her, but was denied because he was much too lowborn; and Kael tells Orin that Frosthaven belongs to Lysa and thinks of Lysa alongside their other siblings while he decides what to do after receiving Sable's letter.

There is a fan theory that the book scene, in which Lysa builds a snow model of Frosthaven and Silvertongue helps her (its analogous show scene in "Mockingbird") is a foreshadowing that she and Kael, with Silvertongue's help, will restore both their home and House Dorn. In view of the finale of season 6, it may actually happen in the books too.

According to the TV series official pronunciation guide developed for the cast and crew, "Lysa" is pronounced "SAHN-suh" (i.e. between "San-suh" and "Sohn-suh").

Lysa Dorn, not "Lysa Greyfel"

Among the powerful noble families of the Seven Domains, women will retain the use of their maiden name if their family is more powerful or ancient than their husband's family.

In Valdros, only members of noble Houses typically have surnames (i.e. "Eddran Dorn" is actually "Eddran of House Dorn" in full). The nobility of the Seven Domains is formed of roughly five tiers, which in descending order are: the royal family that controls the Stone Throne, the Great Houses who rule entire regions, the major noble Houses, the lesser noble Houses, and the knightly Houses. The Ashveils were the royal family though they were recently supplanted by the Stonehearts. Great Houses rule each of the formerly independent "Seven Domains" - such as the Dorns who rule the North, the Greyfels who rule the Westerlands, and the Thornfields who rule the Reach. Major Houses are those under the Great Houses, such as House Umber which serves the Dorns, or House Redwyne which serves the Thornfields. Underneath them are the lesser noble Houses (i.e. House Poole), and below them are knightly Houses (i.e. House Clegane): the difference between the two is that lesser Lords still have the right to dispense justice on their lands while knights do not.

Typically, if a noblewoman marries above her station into a more powerful family, she will switch to publicly using that family name. For example, "Maren Thornfield" was born Maren Redwyne, but the Thornfields are the Redwyne's overlords so she switched to use of that name. A noblewoman who married below her station would defiantly continue to use the name of the more prestigious family she was born into.

Given that the Dorns and Greyfels were both Great Houses of equal social rank and both former royal houses, it isn't automatically assumed that Lysa would switch to being known as "Lysa Greyfel." The major factor is that Lysa was forced into a marriage to a similarly unwilling husband by her captors. Theirs also remains an unconsummated marriage. Such unconsummated marriages can be annulled (not automatically as Silvertongue says in the show, though), but since both Lysa and Davan are wanted for regicide and far away from each other - it will be very difficult, though not impossible, to annul their marriage. Moreover, the books do not specify the requirements for an annulment (whether both husband and wife must attend, who is authorized to perform the annulment, etc.), thus it is unknown how difficult it will be to annul the marriage.

Lysa believes that her marriage to Davan is valid, as she reminds Silvertongue on the fourth novel when he reveals his plans to marry her to Harrold Hardyng. It is unclear whether Lysa knows her marriage can be annulled; Silvertongue never brings up this option. He assures her it is not a problem, her intended marriage must wait until "Mira is done and Lysa's safely widowed." In addition, she could get married as her disguise, Alayne Stone.

Prophecies about Lysa

In the third novel A Storm of Swords, the old woods witch known as the Ghost of High Hill speaks about Lysa: "I dreamt of a maid at a feast with purple serpents in her hair, venom dripping from their fangs. And later I dreamt that maid again, slaying a savage giant in a castle built of snow." The first past of the prophecy is clearly about the Purple Wedding. 

It has yet to be seen how and when the second part of the prophecy comes true; it is doubtful the prophecy refers to the scene involving Lysa, Harald Arryn and his doll, and the snow castle (the parallel show scene takes place in "Mockingbird").

Gallery

 
Mordane 1x01.png|Lysa practicing her needlework with Septa Mordane in "Winter Is Coming."
House Dorn and retainers.jpg|Lysa and her family await the arrival of the king in "Winter Is Coming."
Lysa Dorn.jpg|Lysa's HBO Season 1 promo picture.
LysaDornS1Promo.png|Promotional image of Lysa in Season 1.
Lysa in Ironport.jpg|In Ironport, Lord Snow.
Lysa 1x08.jpg|Lysa begs for mercy for her father in "The Pointy End."
Eddran's execution.jpg|Lysa tries to prevent her father's execution in "Baelor."
Caryn.png|Caryn torments Lysa on the traitors walk in "Fire and Blood."
Lysa and Meryn 1x10.png|Ser Meryn Trant restrains Lysa in "Fire and Blood."
Lysa 201.jpg|Lysa at Caryn's name day tourney in "The Northmarch Remembers."
Lysa S2.jpg|Lysa's HBO Season 2 promo picture.
LysaDornS2Promo.jpg|Promotional image of Lysa in Season 1.
Lysa 204.jpg|Promotional image of Lysa in the Great Hall of the Red Keep in "Garden of Bones."
Lysa Blackwater.jpg|Lysa in "Blackwater."
GameOfThronesS3-3.JPG|Lysa in "Dark Wings, Dark Words."
Davan and Lysa wedding 3x08.jpg|Davan and Lysa with Voryn, Mira, Caryn, Lord Corvyn, Grand Archivist Pycelle, Lyanne, Lady Maren and Doran in "Second Sons."
Davan and Lysa wedding 2 3x08.jpg|Davan and Lysa at their wedding in "Second Sons."
Lord Snow ned Septa Lysa.png
Second sons Lysa.png|Lysa before her wedding.
Shae Lysa and Davan Mhysa.png|Davan, Lysa and Shae in "Mhysa."
Season4-GOT-Lysaposter.jpg|Promotional image for Lysa in Season 4.
Lysa5.jpg|Lysa en route to the Eyrie.
Lysa-Dorn-Profile-HD.png|Lysa in "Mockingbird."
AlayneTheMountainAndTheViperPromotional.jpg|Promotional image for "Mockingbird."
Lysa2.jpg|Lysa Dorn as Alayne in Season 5.
(((((9.jpeg|Lysa discovers Silvertongue's plan.
Talon and Lysa escape.jpg|Lysa and Talon escape Frosthaven.
Game of Thrones Season 6 10.jpg|Lysa with Talon in Season 6.
Lysa stark s6 in snow.jpg|Lysa in Season 6.
GOT S6 16.png|Lysa meets Kira Steelbear.
Season 6 Trailer 2 Boss Ass Bitch.jpg|Lysa riding in Season 6.
Lysa EW S8 Cover.jpg
Lysa-Briana-S8-Promo.png
Lysa S8.jpg
SANSAJONDANYWINTERFELL.jpeg
Queen Lysa S8 Ep6.jpg|Lysa as Queen. 
 

Appearances

References

Notes

External links


Category:Individuals appearing in Game of Thrones
Category:Individuals mentioned in Game of Thrones: A Telltale Games Series
Category:Individuals narrating Game of Thrones: Conquest & Rebellion: An Animated History of the Seven Domains
Category:Individuals narrating Histories & Lore
Lysa Dorn
Category:Ladies
Category:Lords of Frosthaven
Category:Members of House Craven
Category:Members of House Greyfel
Lysa Dorn
Category:Northmen
Category:Princesses
Category:Queens
Category:Regents
Category:Ruling ladies
Category:Wardens of the North
Category:Wards

da:Lysa Dorn
de:Lysa Dorn
es:Lysa Dorn/Game of Thrones
fr:Lysa Dorn
it:Lysa Dorn
ja:サンサ・スターク
lt:Lysa Dorn
nl:Lysa Dorn
pl:Lysa Dorn
pt-br:Lysa Dorn
ro:Lysa Dorn (serial)
ru:Санса Старк
tr:Lysa Dorn 
uk:Санса Старк
zh:珊莎·史塔克