{{Character


Prince Talon Ironcoast was the youngest son of King Corvus Ironcoast of the Iron Islands and the younger brother of Rodrik, Maron, and Vranna Ironcoast.

Following his father's failed rebellion against the Stone Throne, Talon is taken as a ward (initially hostage) to Lord Eddran Dorn of Frosthaven. After Eddran's execution in Ironport, Talon pledges his loyalty to Eddran's eldest son, King Aldric Dorn, in the subsequent War of the Five Kings, but ultimately betrays Aldric and sides with his father in invading the North. Talon takes Frosthaven from Aldric's brother, Renn, but eventually is betrayed by his own men, which leads to his capture by House Craven. He is tortured and forced into servitude by Sable Snow, who turns him into a broken pet named Reek. Talon, however, redeems himself by helping Sable's wife (and Aldric's sister), Lysa Dorn, escape from Frosthaven and find refuge with her "half-brother" Kael Dorn. The two later retake Frosthaven, defeating Sable and House Craven.

Slowly returning to his former self, Talon returns to the Iron Islands, where he learns of his father's death at the hands of his uncle, Luryn Ironcoast, who is later elected King of the Iron Islands at the kingsmoot on Old Wyk. In retaliation, Talon flees with Vranna to seek out an alliance with Lyra Ashveil in Auroram, where they pledge their forces to her. Despite abandoning Vranna during the assault on the Ashveil fleet, he later appeals to the remaining Ironborn on Ashveil Isle to rescue her from Luryn's custody, a mission they complete successfully. While Vranna sails to retake the Iron Islands, Talon returns to Frosthaven with a group of Ironborn to fight for House Dorn in the Great War. Talon perishes defending Renn from the Pale Lord during the Battle of Frosthaven, redeeming himself at last.

Biography

Background

Talon was the youngest son of Lord Corvus and Lady Alannys Ironcoast. Corvus is the head of House Ironcoast and Lord of the Iron Islands. The Ironcoast Islands are one of the constituent regions of the Seven Domains and House Ironcoast is one of the Great Houses of the realm. House Ironcoast rule the region from their seat at Pyke and Corvus also holds the title Lord Reaper of Pyke.

Talon was born at Pyke. He is Corvus and Alannys's fourth child after Rodrik, Maron, and Vranna. Eight years before the start of the series Corvus rose in rebellion against the Stone Throne. The Ironborn were crushed in a war led by King Harald Stoneheart and Lord Eddran Dorn. Talon's brothers were both killed in the fighting. Corvus surrendered and was allowed to remain Lord of the Iron Islands on the condition that Talon remains a hostage and ward of Eddran Dorn.HBO viewers guide, season 2 guide to houses, House Ironcoast - Corvus Ironcoast entry  Talon's sister Vranna remained on the Iron Islands.HBO viewers guide, season 2 guide to houses, House Ironcoast - Vranna Ironcoast entry  Despite his status as a hostage at Frosthaven, Talon was treated well by the Dorns, and he came to see Eddran as a surrogate father while becoming best friends with Aldric Dorn and forming a friendly rivalry with Kael Dorn. Talon is a skilled archer. His cocky arrogance and cavalier actions contrast with the staid ways of the North.HBO viewers guide, season 2 guide to houses, House Dorn - Talon Ironcoast entry 

Game of Thrones: Season 1

 Talon is present during the execution of Will, a deserter from the Veil Guard. He holds the scabbard of Ice, the greatsword of House Dorn, as Lord Eddran Dorn draws it to behead the condemned man. On the way back to Frosthaven, the party finds a disemboweled stag dead in the road. Looking for the killer, they find a dead female direwolf and five pups huddled by the corpse for warmth. A broken piece of the dead stag's antler is embedded in the direwolf's neck. Eddran initially insists the pups be given a quick death, which Talon cavalierly moves to carry out himself, upsetting Renn and angering Aldric.

However, Kael Dorn tells his father that this is an omen as there are five pups and five trueborn Dorn children. Eddran consents to allowing his children to adopt the pups. Just as the party leaves, Kael finds a sixth pup, an albino. Talon mockingly declares him the runt of the litter and that he belongs to Kael. Later, Aldric, Kael, and Talon get shaves and haircuts, as they ponder the impending arrival of the royal party, notably the reputation of Queen Mira Greyfel as a great beauty and the poor reputation of Prince Caryn Stoneheart.

After the royal party's departure, an assassin attempts to kill Renn, who had fallen during one of his climbs and remained comatose. Talon learns that Sera has found evidence implicating the Greyfels in Renn's 'accident' and the failed assassination. Talon and Aldric suggest taking revenge through military action, but Archivist Luwin counsels patience. Sera and Ser Rodrik Cassel depart for Ironport, leaving Aldric in command of the castle. Talon is present when Aldric frostily receives Davan Greyfel on his way back from the Wall. Afterwards, as Davan is leaving to stay in a brothel, Talon condescendingly tells him to ask for Ros. Davan ridicules Talon for his family's failed uprising, calling it "a stupid rebellion", and ponders how Corvus Ironcoast would feel about his last living son being the Dorns' "lackey." While boasting about his family's exploits and heritage, he is put down by Archivist Luwin. He reacts angrily to a further insult from his favorite prostitute, Ros, after sneaking her into the castle to engage her services.

Talon and Aldric exchange views over the matter of Jory Cassel's death and the growing Dorn-Greyfel animosity in Ironport. Aldric brusquely reminds Talon that he is not a Dorn. Renn is taken prisoner by wildlings in the forest near Frosthaven and Talon saves him by shooting Stiv, the wildling leader, in the back with an arrow. Aldric is angry at him, as Renn could have been hurt. Talon counters that he just saved Renn's life, and Aldric was too hesitant to kill. Taking pride in his action, Talon says that you're "only considered a real man in the Iron Islands once you've killed your first enemy."

With the departure of Ros for Ironport, Talon is left at the castle and is bored. He accosts the surviving wildling prisoner, the spearwife Osha, as she is now a servant at Frosthaven. Talon throws his weight around, insisting that she call him "my lord", even though his father still holds the title. He is warned off by Archivist Luwin who reminds Talon that he of all people should know that being a guest and a prisoner are not necessarily mutually exclusive.

Aldric summons his banners to war when word comes of Lord Eddran's arrest. Talon tells Aldric that it is good that he is afraid because it shows he is not stupid. As Talon dines with Aldric and his bannermen later after they arrive at Frosthaven, he witnesses Greatjon Umber threatening to withdraw his men from the host when Aldric refuses to let him lead the vanguard. Aldric counters the Greatjon by saying he is welcome to do so but as soon as he is finished with the Greyfels, he will march back North to route the Greatjon from his keep and hang him for an oathbreaker. As the Greatjon moves to draw a weapon, Talon rises from his chair to defend Aldric but Grey Wind darts down the table and bites off two of the Greatjon's fingers. When Aldric mercifully offers the Greatjon drew his weapon to cut his meat for him, the Greatjon calls his meat "bloody tough", which draws laughter from the rest of the men including Talon. As the northern army marches south, Talon advises Aldric at strategy meetings and greets Sera when the army meets her on the road. When a Greyfel scout is captured, Talon obscures their maps and battle plans, to Greatjon Umber's amusement.

Reaching the Twins, Talon shoots down several ravens leaving the castle bearing messages from Lord Walder Frey, allowing Sera to negotiate an alliance. He is present when Sera returns to inform her son of the terms set by Lord Walder, one of which is that Aldric must marry one of his many female progeny. Talon chuckles when Aldric asks his mother if she got a look at them, and her tone suggests they are not very attractive. Talon later fights alongside Aldric at the Battle of Whispering Wood, where Edran Greyfel is taken prisoner.

Talon suggests that they kill Edran and send his head to his father Voryn, but Aldric refuses, fearing that Lysa and Nira will be harmed in retaliation. When Aldric laments the loss of 2,000 of his men in the feint at the battle on the Green Fork, Talon assures him that songs will be sung of their bravery. Aldric responds that they will not hear them. After news arrives of Eddran's execution, Aldric Dorn is proclaimed the King in the North by his lords bannermen. Talon asks first if they are brothers, now and always. When Aldric's answer is yes, Talon swears his sword and fealty to Aldric's service, proclaiming Aldric as his King.

Game of Thrones: Season 2

Talon appeals to Aldric to seek an alliance with his father, Corvus Ironcoast, reasoning that Aldric needs a fleet to attack Ironport, and confident that Corvus will listen to him. Despite Sera's reservations that Corvus Ironcoast cannot be trusted, Aldric sends Talon home to Pyke as his envoy.

Talon seduces the daughter of the ship's captain and tells her about how he will be welcomed home. He is deflated at the lack of a reception for his return, resorting to bribing, despite his status. His sister, Vranna, poses as a stranger and offers to give him a ride to the castle. She wants to see what Talon has grown up to be. He flirts with her relentlessly, even touching her almost intimately and brags about his own importance.

Corvus greets Talon coolly, believing that he has forgotten his roots and become loyal to the Dorns in his time away. He insults Talon's fine clothes given to him by the Dorns, and is furious when Talon tells him that Aldric thinks of him as a brother. Vranna reveals her deception and Corvus compares Talon to his sister unfavorably. Corvus rejects the alliance Talon suggests and is insulted that Talon thought he would accept being given a crown. He reminds Talon that they pay the iron price and take what they want.

Corvus reveals that he plans to attack the North while it is poorly defended. Corvus gives Vranna a fleet of thirty ships to take Deepwood Motte and insults Talon by giving him a lesser mission to raid fishing villages on the Stony Shore, with only a single ship. Talon considers informing Aldric of the plot but decides that his loyalty lies with his family. Having decided to betray House Dorn he is baptized in the name of the Drowned God as Corvus and Vranna watch. He takes command of the Sea Bitch but finds his crew unruly. His first mate Dagmer tells him that he must prove himself to the men and that Ironborn do not follow orders. Talon senses the opportunity to attack Torrhen's Square to lure the Dorn garrison away from Frosthaven.

His plan is successful and Talon has his men seize the poorly defended Frosthaven. He forces Renn Dorn to yield to him by threatening his people. His men capture Ser Rodrik Cassel coming back from Torrhen's Square, and Rodrik is openly defiant, calling Talon a traitor. Ser Rodrik regrets that he gave him weapon training and even spits in Talon's face. Dagmer insists that Rodrik must be killed to maintain the respect of the men. Rodrik baits Talon into performing the execution himself. Talon botches the beheading, taking three swings and a vicious kick to accomplish it, to the horror of Renn and the watching crowd.

Talon is seduced by Osha, who Talon grants her freedom to in return for her sexual service. She then frees Renn and Torvin, fleeing with them while Talon sleeps. When Talon wakes the next day, he is told that Renn and Torvin have escaped. He is angry at his men for allowing the children and the simpleminded Borran to escape. Black Lorren implies that Talon is actually to blame for their escape by allowing himself to be seduced by Osha. Talon, in turn, responds to this insolence by publicly beating Lorren.

Despite his attempts, Talon is unable to find the escapees. Unwilling to appear weak, he has Dagmer murder two boys, Jack and Billy, from a farm and burn their bodies. Unknown to Talon, Osha led Renn and Torvin into the Frosthaven crypts after realizing that Talon would never give up the chase. Talon displays the corpses of Jack and Billy at Frosthaven and claims they were Renn and Torvin. Talon sends word to Vranna to bring him 500 men as reinforcements.

She arrives with just twenty men and warns him that everyone in the North wants him dead because of his killing of the Dorn boys, and he is too far from the sea to supply or reinforce his position. Vranna tells him about how she remembers him as a child, demanding but sweet. She urges him to abandon Frosthaven, return to the Iron Islands, and not to die so far from his home, but he refuses to give up his prize. Feeling some guilt over the deaths of the two farms boys, his asks Dagmer to pay the farmer for his grief. Dagmer tells Talon that after killing the orphans, he also murdered the farmer and his wife.

Frosthaven is later surrounded by Northmen under the command of Sable Snow, who infuriates Talon by blowing a horn all through the night. Besieged with no hope for relief, Talon tearfully vents his frustration to Archivist Luwin at being constantly reminded by everyone, including Luwin himself, how fortunate he was to be a prisoner of the Dorns. Assuming a more sympathetic tone, Luwin advises Talon to flee to the Wall and join the Veil Guard so that he might save his life and attempt to redeem himself, adding he knows Talon is not the ruthless man he is pretending to be.

Talon owes to Luwin that he has done terrible things in his futile attempts to gain power and respect but he refuses to deviate from the course he has set, saying he has gone too far to ever pretend to be anyone else, and also adds that Kael Dorn will likely kill him in revenge for allegedly killing Renn and Torvin. He readies his men for a glorious death in battle, giving a rousing speech, but is betrayed and knocked out by Dagmer, who plans to turn him over to the northern forces so the rest of them can go home. Luwin attempts to aid Talon but is stabbed in the abdomen by Dagmer, who then has Talon dragged away with his head covered by a cloth bag.

Game of Thrones: Season 3

Aldric Craven's bastard son Sable Snow has been sent to secure Frosthaven from the Ironborn and bring Talon back to Aldric Dorn alive. However, Aldric plans to double-cross Aldric and after the Ironborn turn on Talon and surrender themselves to Snow's forces, he has them all killed and secretly captures Talon. Talon is imprisoned at the Dreadfort, although Talon is unaware where he is. Bound to a rack, he is repeatedly tortured by a group of men, some of whom are dressed in the garb of Ironcoast men. One of them pries off Talon's fingernails with a knife while the others drive a screw through his foot.

After enduring extensive torture, Talon is given some reprieve. Sable Snow deceives Talon, claiming he is a servant and approaches him and claims he's been sent by Vranna to rescue him, before leaving Talon, placing the cloth bag over his head for the night. Before dawn, Sable returns and cuts Talon free and provides him with water and a mount. Sable advises Talon to keep heading east where Vranna is waiting for him. Talon says he'll make the boy a lord of the Iron Islands for his actions. The boy replies, "We're not in the Iron Islands."

As Talon rides east, an arrow narrowly misses his head, and Talon sees that his captors are following him. After a harrowing chase the former Prince of Frosthaven is knocked from his horse by a blow from a flail. The men hold Talon in place as the leading torturer prepares to rape him. Talon's pleas for them to stop fall on deaf ears but then the leader is pierced by an arrow. Sable has returned and swiftly kills all his men. Sable helps Talon to his feet and tells him to come with him, because he is far from home and winter is coming.

After rescuing him the boy promises Talon to take him to Deepwood Motte to see Vranna. When Talon questions his savior, Sable lies that he is Ironborn as well, growing up on Saltcliffe, and he witnessed Talon being shipped off to Frosthaven. Some time later the men reach a holdfast, and Talon questions why they have to sneak inside when surely Vranna's men are loyal to her. Sable warns Talon that some of the men belong to his father Corvus, who wants him dead. As Sable struggles to open a locked gate Talon confesses his sins. He wanted desperately to impress his father but he knows now that Eddran Dorn was his true father. After opening the gate Talon and Sable enter a darkened room. The youth lights a torch and much to Talon's horror he's back in the same torture chamber in the Dreadfort. Armed men enter and Sable claims that Talon killed their comrades and escaped but he has brought their captive back. Kicking and screaming, Talon is refastened to the rack.

Talon is awakened by the ringing of a trumpet. Sable 'begs pardon' for rousing his guest. Talon tries to mumble something but fails. Sable understands his prisoner requires water but pours it out all over the dungeon floor to further torment him. Sable proposes a game to pass the time and he asks the heir to Pyke which body part he does not need. Hearing this Talon vows to tell his captor all he wishes to know. The cruel boy merely mocks him stating that Talon already told him everything of value. Sable goes on saying that he realizes Talon wants to know who he is and why he is being tortured.

The young man makes a proposal: If Talon guesses correctly who he actually is Talon is the victor, but if Talon begs his tormentor to remove his finger he wins. Talon then asks if winning said game will secure his release. Sable then mocks Talon's naïveté stating there is no happy ending in store for him. Talon does guess correctly that he is still in the North. However when the former prince of Frosthaven supposes that Sable is a son of Rickard Karstark he is revealed to be wrong. Sable slowly flays his captive's finger stating that Talon first should have asked if he was a liar. Talon begs for the finger to be cut off which delights Sable since Sable has won the 'game'.

Talon is later released from the cross by two beautiful young women, Myranda and Violet. They put Talon to bed and they then proceed to fondle him sensually. Both have heard that the heir to Pyke is well endowed and are hoping to get firsthand experience. Talon is distrustful at first fearing that this is another of his tormentor's tricks. When they disrobe and straddle him, Talon's resolve to resist weakens. Suddenly the familiar horn sounds and Sable enters, revealing that Myranda and Violet are two of his bedwarmers. He too has heard how large his prisoner's penis is and surmises it is Talon's favorite body part. When the sadistic Sable brandishes a hooked knife Talon realizes Sable means to castrate him. Horrified, Talon begs for mercy, but Sable quips that this is mercy as he is not killing, but merely altering Talon. Two men restrain Talon as Sable proceeds to geld him, knocking him out in the process, after which he is castrated.

Talon later wakes in his strung up position while Sable eats a long plump sausage nearby and motions to Talon's blood-stained, badly sewn-up trousers, momentarily tricking Talon into thinking it is his penis he is eating. Sable mocks him as he laughs about his severed penis and wonders if Talon will have phantom feelings for his lost body part if he goes near any pretty women. Talon finally begs Sable to kill him as an escape from the nightmare, but Sable tells him he is much more valuable to him alive.

He renames him "Reek" (because he smells bad) and demands that Talon say that his name is Reek. With an angry look, Talon says his name is Talon Ironcoast, prompting Sable to punch him and ask again, and again, smirking slightly, he says his name is Talon Ironcoast. Sable hits him harder, grabs his head and screams the same question. This time, Talon gives in and says his that name is Reek. As Sable returns to his table satisfied, Talon weeps silently over his lost pride.

Sable sends Talon's severed penis to his family in Pyke with a letter detailing his Sack of Frosthaven and his demand that the Ironborn withdraw from the North or Sable will send them more of Talon's body parts. Corvus refuses to surrender, saying that Talon was a fool for disobeying his orders and attacking Frosthaven and that, as his castration means that he is no longer capable of producing heirs, he has no value whatsoever. However, Vranna defies her father and prepares the fastest ship in the fleet and the strongest men on the Iron Islands to sail on the Dreadfort and rescue Talon.

Game of Thrones: Season 4

Talon, now going by the name Reek, has been freed from his restraints, but on the condition that he work for Sable as a servant. Because of his torture and emasculation by Sable, Talon is now mentally weakened and offers no resistance to his new lord. He accompanies Sable and Myranda on their hunt for Tansy, however he struggles to keep up with them due to his injuries. When Myranda brings down Tansy with an arrow to the leg Sable asks Reek if it was a good shot. Reek calls it a fine shot while addressing Sable as "Master" and Myranda as "My Lady." Reek watches in silent horror when Sable orders his pack of hounds to maul Tansy to pieces.

Sable brings Reek before Sable's father, Aldric Craven. Aldric is angered that Sable has damaged a valuable hostage, whom he intended to trade for the Ironborn-occupied Moat Cailin. To demonstrate their captive's submissiveness, Sable orders Reek to shave him. Reek reveals to Aldric that he did not murder Renn and Torvin Dorn, and that they may be with their half-brother Kael Dorn at Castle Black. Sable then reveals to Reek that Aldric Dorn is dead, and was stabbed through the heart by Aldric. Reek holds the razor at Sable's neck briefly but continues shaving. When Aldric orders Locke to find and kill the Dorn boys, the latter asks Sable if his "pet rat" has any thoughts on where they went. Without saying a word, Sable orders Reek to answer Locke's question by simply giving him a look. Reek sadly tells him that they may be with Kael Dorn at Castle Black.

Vranna, along with a group of Ironborn, infiltrates the Dreadfort to rescue her brother, only to find him in one of the kennels. Believing that this may be another one of Sable's tricks, Reek desperately refuses to abandon his master, refusing to be Talon Ironcoast and screaming to be left alone, insisting that he is Reek. Soon Sable arrives with a group of Northmen. As the two sides fight each other, Reek keeps resisting to be taken and bites Vranna's hand to return to his cage. Vranna escapes after being rejected and Sable unleashing his hounds at her. As a reward for his demonstration of loyalty, Sable offers Reek a bath, though Reek is hesitant to remove his clothing, due to the many scars of his torture and his earlier castration. After Reek gets into the tub, Sable cleans his servant himself and demands a demonstration of Reek's love: his help to get a castle back. Reek's task is to masquerade as Talon Ironcoast.

Outside of Moat Cailin, Sable goes over Reek's mission with him one last time: he is to enter Moat Cailin under the guise of Talon Ironcoast, prince of the Iron Islands, and attempt to negotiate with the Ironborn garrison holding it in an attempt to convince them to surrender the fortress to the Cravens. Reek rides up to the fortress gate, and almost blows his cover when asked to identify himself, yet manages to regain his composure and convince the Ironborn to let him to enter.

Upon riding into Moat Cailin, Reek finds it in a state of death and decay, littered with corpses and the few remaining men ravaged by disease and exhaustion. He introduces himself as Prince Talon and truthfully informs the Ironborn that he has been a prisoner of House Craven and has been sent to Moat Cailin as their envoy. He reads the terms that House Craven has laid out for the Ironborn, promising them safe passage home if they peacefully surrender Moat Cailin.

However, Ralf Kenning, the garrison commander of the Ironborn, decries Reek's words as those of a "whipped dog" and that he is no true Ironborn, nearly causing Reek to become unnerved and drop his facade. However, Reek is saved when one of Kenning's own men suddenly buries an axe in his head and accepts Reek's terms of surrender. However, the Ironborn are promptly massacred and flayed by Sable and his men after they surrender. Sable reveals to Talon that he never intended to let the Ironborn go, and congratulates him by patting him.

In the aftermath, Sable meets with his father and presents him with the Ironcoast banner that was flying over the fortress. In recognition, Aldric presents Sable with a decree of legitimization, making him officially a member of House Craven. Delighted at the knowledge he will succeed his father as Warden of the North, Sable and Reek accompany Aldric's army as it approaches the ruins of Frosthaven, with Sable gleefully informing Reek that he's ready for a hot bath.

Game of Thrones: Season 5

Reek walks through the partially-repaired Frosthaven and is clearly shaken when he sees freshly flayed corpses being hung on the castle walls, which reminds him of the burned corpses of Jack and Billy. Later, while Sable and Aldric Craven discuss their delicate position as the new Wardens of the North, Reek serves them their food. When his childhood friend, Lysa Dorn, arrives in Frosthaven, Reek watches her arrival from a distance. Later, as Lysa explores the courtyard, Reek avoids her but appears to be struggling not to call out to her.

Later, while sleeping in the kennels, Reek is accosted by Lysa, who had been led there by Myranda. Reek shakes his head at her and tells her she shouldn't be there. Sable later confronts Reek about how Lysa approached him and chastises him for keeping it a secret from him. Though he seems like he will punish Reek, he ultimately forgives him. As the Cravens eat, Sable first coerces Reek into apologizing to Lysa for allegedly murdering Renn and Torvin. He then suggests that Reek should walk Lysa down the altar at their coming wedding with the rest of her family allegedly dead, which visibly angers Lysa and discomforts Reek.

On the night of the wedding, Reek, once again assuming his previous identity as Talon Ironcoast, arrives to escort Lysa to Sable, though Lysa, still angry with him, refuses to allow Talon to hold her arm, even when Talon claims Sable will punish him. Talon walks Lysa through the Godswood to the Heart tree and gives the bride away. After the wedding, Talon leads Lysa and Sable to their new chambers, but Sable orders Talon to remain with them to watch what is to come.

Having personally been on the receiving end of Sable's brutality, Talon tries to look away, but Sable repeats the order, and Talon is forced to watch, which he does. Talon is visibly horrified as he watches Sable rape his childhood friend, making her cry, and silently cries himself. Though Talon is still too weak to intervene, a brief flash of anger spreads across his face.

A few days later, Reek brings Lysa her breakfast, closing the window when he notices her shivering in bed. When Lysa realizes Reek is there, she tries to talk to him and get him to help her. Reek continues to deny that he is Talon, until Lysa accuses him of betraying her family, and reminds him that he is Talon Ironcoast, son and heir of Corvus Ironcoast, Lord of the Iron Islands, and that he can redeem himself by lighting a candle in the broken tower in order to signal Briana Stoneguard and Patrin Blade to come and rescue her. Though Reek takes the candle, he reluctantly informs Sable of Lysa's plan in order to spare her further pain should it fail, but it is implied during his conversation with Lysa that his original personality of Talon Ironcoast is slowly beginning to resurface.

When Reek next brings Lysa breakfast, she confronts him about why he revealed her plan to Sable, and he responds that it was to protect her, since he has found out there is no escape from Sable: as Talon Ironcoast, he tried numerous times, but Sable always found him and took away pieces of him until there was nothing left of Talon anymore, only Reek. Lysa coldly expresses approval, adding that if she could do what Sable did to him all over again, she would.

Reek shamefully owes to her that he deserved it as he did terrible things, specifically killing "those boys." Enraged by his reference seemingly to her brothers as "those boys" rather than Renn and Torvin, Lysa vehemently demands to know why they should be dead while he still breathes the air, forcing Reek to finally admit that they were not Renn and Torvin, but two farm boys. In light of this admission, Lysa's anger towards Reek cools, but when she presses him as to where they might have gone, calling him Talon again, he breaks down and runs out the room, crying, "Not Talon! Reek!"

When Lysa finally succeeds in breaking out of her room and lighting the candle in the tower, she is confronted by Reek and Myranda on the catwalks, with Myranda pointing a bow at her. Reek begs Lysa not to resist, but Lysa welcomes her fate. However, when Myranda claims that she will spare Lysa and merely maim her, Reek remembers the role Myranda played in his castration. Unwilling to let Lysa suffer the same fate, Reek grabs Myranda and pushes her off the catwalk to her death. Now Talon Ironcoast once again, he takes Lysa and they run when the Craven cavalry arrives after defeating Orin Stoneheart at the battle in the ice. With no other choice, and aware of what will come when Sable finds Myranda's body, Talon and Lysa jump from the parapet to the snow below.

Game of Thrones: Season 6

Pursued by Sable's men and hounds, Talon and Lysa cross the river and take shelter, but their scent is picked up by the hounds. Talon urges Lysa to flee to her half-brother Kael Dorn at Castle Black while he holds them off, but they see through his ruse and find Lysa. Briana Stoneguard and Patrin Blade arrive to fight the Craven soldiers, and Talon kills the last one, saving Patrin's life. He witnesses Briana pledge her service to Lysa, which this time she accepts.

As Briana talks with Lysa, Talon overhears that she crossed paths with Nira, Lysa's sister, while gathering wood to help Patrin start a fire. Talon is wary of the fire, since it may alert Sable or his men. Lysa and Briana decide to head to Castle Black to get to Kael, who will protect them from Sable, and though Lysa promises to tell Kael the truth about Renn and Torvin, Talon believes that Kael will still kill him for betraying Aldric, executing Rodrik Cassel, and slaughtering Jack and Billy. Talon claims he does not want to be forgiven, even by joining the Veil Guard, and instead decides to return home, knowing that Lysa will be safer with Briana and Patrin. Before his departure though, Lysa embraces Talon in gratitude for helping her escape Sable.

Talon arrives at the Iron Islands and receives a harsh reception from Vranna, who is still angry with him for refusing to be rescued from the Dreadfort, saying good men were lost that night. Weeping, he apologizes several times, but she doesn't want to hear it. She accuses him of trying to take advantage of their father's murder to become King of Pyke. Talon vehemently denies this, saying he had no idea Corvus was dead until he arrived. She demands to know what he wants, and he says she deserves to be the ruler of Pyke and he will support her claim to the Salt Throne.

During the kingsmoot on Old Wyk, Talon stands before his fellow Ironborn when it is his turn to speak. Though he is visibly nervous, most likely because of his role in the siege of Moat Cailin, he openly declares his support for Vranna's claim to the Salt Throne; stating that she is a warrior, a reaver, and most importantly Ironborn. Choking back tears as he swallows what little pride he has left, Talon concludes, "This is our queen." Though his words prompt many men to declare their support for Vranna, they are soon challenged by their uncle Luryn Ironcoast, who condescendingly pats Talon on the cheek as Sable once did before belittling him for his past defeats and emasculation. Vranna then accuses Luryn of murdering their father. To their surprise, Luryn admits to murdering Corvus but claims that he did it because he was leading them to defeat and apologizes for not doing it years ago. Talon counters that would have been hard to do as Luryn was off gallivanting on the high seas and having a grand old time, prompting his uncle to once again bring up his emasculation.

Talon ignores his uncle's insult and reminds everyone that Luryn had left, and meanwhile, Vranna was leading Ironborn ships and men in battle. When Vranna proposes building a massive fleet to conquer the mainland, Luryn counters by offering to seal an alliance with Lyra Ashveil in order to defeat the mainland lords. The crowd then elects Luryn to be their next king. While Luryn is being baptized by Aeron, Talon, his sister, and their supporters flee to Aravel on the best ships in the Iron Fleet, knowing that Luryn will kill them in order to cement his claim.

Talon and Vranna take the Iron Fleet to Flameport to hide and rest. While sheltering in Flameport, Talon and his sister visit a bar where the Ironborn are entertained by prostitutes. Talon is still traumatized by his ordeal with Sable and is also troubled by his guilt over his role in the deaths of the orphan boys. He also has little interest in the prostitutes and ale. Vranna urges her brother to regain his self-confidence since she needs his help to travel to Slaver's Bay and secure an alliance with Lyra. Vranna plans to return to the Iron Islands and seek revenge against Luryn, but tells Talon that if he's irreparably broken, he should kill himself and be done with it - but if he wishes to journey with her to Auroram, she needs the real Talon Ironcoast. At that moment, Talon fiercely locks eyes with Vranna, a gaze reminiscent of his former, Ironborn self. Pleased that Talon's old personality is resurfacing, she kisses him on the forehead and proceeds to go bed the prostitute she was fondling earlier.

Following the second siege of Auroram, Talon and Vranna meet with Lyra and Davan Greyfel, who recognizes Talon from his visit to Frosthaven years ago. Davan reminds Talon of how he teased the dwarf about his height and sees this as unbecoming of a noble, which Talon acknowledges was long ago. When Davan informs Lyra about Talon's alleged role in the deaths of Renn and Torvin Dorn, Talon insists that he did not, but he did commit other crimes, which he has paid for. Talon explains to Lyra that Luryn murdered their father, usurped the Salt Throne and would have killed them too had they not fled. He offers to provide Lyra with a hundred ships in return for helping them eliminate Luryn and recognizing the independence of the Iron Islands, on the basis that if Lyra refuses them and accepts Luryn's offer, Luryn will kill her and rule the Seven Domains himself, though Talon makes it clear that it is to support Vranna's claim and not his, deeming himself unfit to rule, to Lyra's surprise.

Lyra agrees to their terms in return that the Ironborn cease raiding, pillaging, and raping the mainlanders. Vranna is reluctant at first but assents to the agreement when Talon gives her a nod. Some time later, Talon and Vranna begin the voyage back to Valdros with Lyra and her retinue, along with the Iron Fleet, the Kolvari, the Ironbound and the armies of House Thornfield and Sunreach, with Salara Dustblade and Maren Thornfield having heard of Talon and Vranna's actions and followed them in declaring for Lyra.

Game of Thrones: Season 7

Vranna and Talon attend Lyra's council meeting, after which, as part of Davan's plan to lay siege to Ironport, Talon and Vranna are tasked with escorting Salara Dustblade and the Sand Snakes back to Sunreach. On the voyage back to Sunspear, Salara drinks Ironborn liquor with Vranna and Talon, which she compares unfavorably to Dornish wine. Salara asks Vranna if she had ever been to Sunreach, to which Vranna responds that she has been there a few times. Salara responds that there is a boy in every port in Sunreach, which Vranna responds, "A boy, a girl. Depends on the port." Vranna and Salara begin to sexually flirt with each other. Vranna tells Salara that Talon will serve as both her bodyguard and adviser. Vranna puts her feet up on the table. Salara bends over Vranna and spreads her legs apart across the table. Salara moves her hand up Vranna's leg towards her crotch. Salara invites Talon to have a threesome with her and Vranna, but Vranna tells Salara to "Leave him be."

While Vranna and Salara began kissing, Vranna's ship is struck. On the deck above, they discover that their fleet has been ambushed by Luryn Ironcoast's portion of the Iron Fleet, lead by the imposing Silence, which is significantly larger than the Black Wind, ramming into it and using a levy to board Vranna's forces. Despite fighting bravely and cutting down many of Luryn's men, Talon watches helplessly as Luryn takes Vranna hostage, daring him to intervene. After witnessing the defeated soldiers being tortured and mutilated by Luryn's men, Talon returns to his despondent state and jumps overboard. Upon surfacing, Talon can only watch as Luryn's flagship sails away, having decimated their entire armada, and sees the corpses of Obara and Nymeria Sand impaled and hanging from the ship's bowsprit.

Talon is later rescued from the Narrow Sea by one of the few surviving ships loyal to Vranna. When their captain, Harrag, questions him about Vranna's fate, Talon claims that he tried to save her. An unimpressed Harrag chides Talon, begrudgingly telling him he would be dead if that were true.

Talon later returns to Ashveil Isle and is shocked to be met on the beach by none other than Kael Dorn; the two have not seen each other since Kael left Frosthaven for the Wall, over six years ago. Talon hesitantly greets him and asks Kael if Lysa is all right; Kael angrily grabs him by the collar, saying that Talon saving Lysa from the Cravens is the only reason he won't kill him then and there for betraying House Dorn in the first place. Talon informs Kael and Maron that Vranna was taken captive by Luryn and he needs Lyra's help to get her back, only for Kael to tell him that she has left Ashveil Isle to carry out her own attack on the Greyfel armies.

Talon accompanies Kael's group to the meeting with Queen Mira, where Luryn attempts to force him to swear fealty in order to save Vranna. Talon refuses, openly admitting Luryn's own dwarf jokes to Davan aren't very good. Later, back at Ashveil Isle, Talon meets with Kael before he prepares to return to the North with Lyra. As they reflect on their enmities, Talon admits he was conflicted between his birth family and the Dorns, though Kael retorts that Eddran was more of a father than Corvus ever was. Kael assures Talon that he is both a Dorn and a Ironcoast, encouraging him to rescue his sister from Luryn.

At the beach, Talon attempts to rally Vranna's remaining supporters. However, Harrag refuses, chiding Talon as a coward for abandoning Vranna. Talon fights Harrag, though the captain gains the upper hand and almost beats Talon to death when he refuses to stop. Unaware of Talon's castration at the hands of Sable, Harrag fails to injure Talon by kneeing him in the groin and is beat into submission. Finally earning the respect of the Ironborn, Talon rallies them to rescue Vranna, washing his bloodied face in the salt water before leaving.

Game of Thrones: Season 8

While Luryn is distracted in the Red Keep, with Queen Mira Greyfel finally giving in to his lust following the departure of her brother (and lover), Talon and his remaining Ironborn sneak aboard the Silence. After silently murdering members of Luryn's crew, they find Vranna inside the ship. He awkwardly unties her before she hauls herself to her feet, proceeding to headbutt him, knocking him to the ground, due to his earlier abandonment of her. However, she then drags him to his feet, and the two share a mutual look of respect.

The two then make their escape, spanning their minimalist forces across Talon's three ships. While Vranna expresses her desire to reclaim the Iron Islands, Talon is somewhat forlorn, despite Vranna's promise of refuge from the threat of Frost Wraiths on the mainland. Talon states that he will follow his Queen, but Vranna recognizes he wants to fight in the North. Having done his duty to House Ironcoast, she lets him go.

Talon makes it to Frosthaven, where he is greeted by both Lyra and Lysa. After he explains to Lyra that Vranna has sailed with her men to retake the Iron Islands from Luryn in the name of House Ashveil, he asks permission from Lysa to fight for the North, and they share a hug as they are reunited. Talon later takes part in a meeting in preparation for the great battle to come, and announces that he will defend Renn Dorn in the godswood, as reparation for having previously taken the castle from him. Talon is later seen sharing a hot drink with Lysa shortly before the army of the Frost Wraiths arrives.

In the Battle of Frosthaven, Talon stands guard for Renn along with the Ironborn and several other soldiers. When the Frostborn attack, he fires several arrows with dragonglass arrowheads, but it does little to stop the onslaught. When the Pale Lord arrives with several other Frost Wraiths to kill Renn, Renn calls Talon a good man and thanks him, having redeemed himself. Knowing that there is no escaping death at this point, Talon chooses to die with dignity. He nods at the Pale Lord, challenging him, the Pale Lord steps forward and Talon charges at the him with a dragonglass spear. The Pale Lord easily stops Talon and breaks his spear in half, then takes hold of the sharp end and stabs Talon through the stomach with it. Talon falls to the ground, and bleeds to death as the Pale Lord makes his approach towards Renn. Talon's death was not in vain, however, as it bought just enough time for Nira Dorn to arrive and kill the Pale Lord, preventing Renn's death.

In the aftermath of the battle, Talon's body is retrieved and put on a funeral pyre. He is mourned by Lysa, who places a pin with the insignia of House Dorn on his chest piece, as a sign of gratitude and recognition of what Talon did for Lysa and her family since they escaped from Sable. Talon's body is then burnt along with the thousand others who died in the battle against the dead.

Personality

Before his capture by Sable Snow, Talon is shown to be arrogant, narcissistic and vain, but fundamentally not malicious. For example, when he returned to the Iron Islands, he expected to receive a hero's welcome for being the only living heir of Corvus Ironcoast. He was both baffled and offended that he did not receive such a welcome when he landed in Pyke. Also, in order to appear like a strong, accomplished young man, he would gloat over things in an almost ridiculous way - he gloated to Osha that he was the man who captured her, even though Aldric Dorn fought and captured her.

Beneath his confident exterior, however, Talon is insecure, weak, and unsure of himself. This stems particularly from his conflicted family allegiances. After his father's failed rebellion against Harald Stoneheart, he was taken from Pyke when he was nine years old to be raised at Frosthaven by the Dorn family as their ward/hostage. Even though he grew up alongside the Dorn children - Aldric Dorn and Talon considered each other best friends - Talon never forgot that he was an outsider since he was not of their blood, and would be executed if his father tried to rebel again. This outsider status weighed heavily on Talon, demonstrated when Ros and Davan Greyfel mention it.

This insecurity eventually leads him to question which is his true family: the Dorns or the Ironcoasts. When Aldric sends Talon to Pyke to convince his father Corvus and sister Vranna to help the Dorns fight against the Greyfels, Corvus and Vranna are initially successful in using their family bond to sway Talon to their side to instead fight the Dorns and not aid them against the Greyfels. Even though Talon agrees to go along with his father's plan, this still causes a great deal of conflict in Talon and he almost warns Aldric of Corvus's plan before deciding against it. Talon tries to become a ruthless Ironborn raider to gain his biological father's approval and find a true home but the conscience that he developed living with the Dorns makes it difficult for him to live up to these expectations. When he seizes Frosthaven, he promises Renn that no one will be harmed if Renn surrenders - which is something an honorable northerner would promise but no true Ironborn would ever do - but minutes later, Talon shatters his promise by beheading Ser Rodrik Cassel when Cassel spits in his face, an unforgivable act among the Ironborn. In his time "ruling" Frosthaven Talon mostly acts reckless and impulsive, attempting to keep order with iron hand desperate to not look as a fool at the eyes of his family and his own men.

The seizure of Frosthaven shows that Talon has tactical skills, but also that, like his father, he is a total ignorant in strategy. He fails to consider what Vranna explains him very bluntly: that Frosthaven is surrounded by hostile forces and too far from the sea, thus the Ironborn garrison cannot be reinforced and eventually will be destroyed. Vranna urges Talon to leave Frosthaven, but he foolishly insists to keep his "prize", refusing to understand how poor his position is.

Even throughout Talon's "rule" of Frosthaven, he is shown to be in a constant battle with himself, implying he knows deep down that invading his childhood home for his father was far from the right thing to do. Archivist Luwin even points out to Talon that all of this is just an act to live up to his father's expectations and that Talon himself must know that his betrayal at Frosthaven is wrong. Talon resignedly admits to Luwin that he is correct, but that he can't stop because he has already come too far to be forgiven, and refuses to join the Veil Guard, where all of his crimes would be forgiven, out of shame (and partially out of fear that Kael Dorn might kill him in retribution for allegedly murdering Renn and Torvin). It is only after Talon becomes a prisoner of the Cravens and realizes that his father has no intention of rescuing him that he admits to himself and to Sable Snow that Eddran Dorn was his "real father" and laments Eddran's execution in Ironport.

After being tortured by Sable Snow in the dungeons of the Dreadfort for over a year, Talon's original personality has been seemingly obliterated, and he is little more than a broken and half-insane prisoner. Among various tortures, Sable cut off several of his fingers and toes, flayed off sections of his skin, and even had Myranda and Violet arouse Talon in order to castrate him. Sable even mockingly renamed him "Reek", physically and psychologically coercing Talon into denying his identity as "Talon Ironcoast" and accepting "Reek" as his new name and identity. Sable also psychologically tortured him with fake escape attempts or promises of rescue, before recapturing him. As a result, Reek thinks any possibility of escape or fighting back against Sable is simply another ruse. He lives in great fear of Sable, desperate to avoid angering him and is in such a state of traumatic shock that he is very withdrawn and submissive.

However, despite his previous actions, Reek appears to have retained a strong love and loyalty to the remaining Dorns, demonstrated on several occasions: he is visibly shocked when Sable gloats about Aldric's death, briefly holding a razor to Sable's neck and appearing on the verge of slitting his throat (though he doesn't, because Aldric and Locke are present); he appears hesitant about telling them that Renn and Torvin may be sheltering at Castle Black with Kael Dorn, knowing that it may lead to their deaths, but does so anyway to avoid angering Sable; he silently cries and briefly looks angry when Sable rapes Lysa, and does his best (or what he thinks is the best) to keep Lysa from angering Sable and suffering more at his hands, and even goes as far as to confess to Lysa that he deserved what he suffered under Sable and that he deserved to be Reek for what he did to the Dorn family. However, when pushed too far, Talon ultimately abandons his Reek persona and chooses his loyalty to the Dorns over Sable, by killing Myranda and helping Lysa escape from Frosthaven, though still believing himself unworthy of anyone's forgiveness for betraying the Dorns, who were the only ones who ever treated him like family.

Despite this admission, Talon still expresses shock after learning of his father's death when he returns to the Iron Islands. Though his sister Vranna is still angry with him for refusing to be rescued, they reconcile when Talon offers to support Vranna's claim to the Salt Throne. While initially despondent, Talon regains some of his confidence during the kingsmoot on Old Wyk to select the next ruler of the Iron Islands. Giving a brief rousing speech, he manages to convince many of the gathered Ironborn to join him in supporting his sister's claim to the Salt Throne, his speaking skills demonstrating that the original Talon Ironcoast is starting to resurface, though he and Vranna are outmaneuvered by Luryn, who wins many over by offering to seal an alliance with Lyra Ashveil.

After escaping Luryn with his sister Vranna, Talon slides back into his despondent state and is troubled by his role in the death of the orphan boys; believing that he should hang for his crimes. Vranna counsels him to rediscover himself so that they can secure an alliance with Lyra and retake the Iron Islands from their uncle Luryn. While negotiating with Lyra, Talon does not display reluctance for the Ironborn to cease raping, pillaging and reaving, and nods at Vranna to tell her to agree with Lyra, demonstrating that despite his recovery, he is still greatly traumatized by his torture by Sable, and apparently wishes to lead a more peaceful life in order to prevent it from happening again.

By the time of the alliance between Kael Dorn and Lyra Ashveil, Talon has shown himself to have changed with one particular act: he fought Harrag over the next move of the surviving Ironborn. This act shows: Talon, who once demanded the respect of the Ironborn he had not earned when he first returned to Pyke, approaches the Ironborn as an equal and attempts to rally them to rescue Vranna; he was willing to admit publicly that he was a coward to flee from Luryn, something he never would have done previously; furthermore, Talon will fight to the death over what he believes, instead of fleeing or submitting as he has in the past. Even though Harrag was significantly stronger than him, he continued to fight, and when Harrag loses his advantage Talon seizes his chance and overpowers him, finally earning the respect of his sister's warriors. This shows that the Talon who betrayed House Dorn, as well as the Reek who was a prisoner and lapdog of Sable Craven, is dead and gone, and that the new Talon Ironcoast stands in his place, a brave and strong man willing to fight for what he believes in.

Quotes

Spoken by Talon

Spoken about Talon

Family

Behind the scenes

*Alfie Allen, who portrays Talon, is one of several actors who originally auditioned to play Kael Dorn, along with Iwan Rheon and Joe Dempsie. He lost to Kit Harington.
*Florian Robin was a stunt double for Alfie Allen in the role of Talon Ironcoast.

In the books

In A Song of Ice and Fire, Talon was a young boy when his father's rebellion was crushed and his two brothers were killed. He has one surviving sibling, his sister Asha (called Vranna in the TV series).
Talon has been raised at Frosthaven since the age of ten; of all the Dorns, he has become close friends with Aldric Dorn. He considers Aldric as a younger brother, more a brother to him than his brothers Rodrik and Maron; that does not stop him from betraying Aldric, though.

In the beginning of the first novel, Talon is nineteen years old, five years older than Aldric and Kael.

Talon is cordial but distant with the rest of the family, and has a bitter rivalry with Eddran Dorn's illegitimate son Kael Dorn; both Talon and Kael are close with Aldric, but Talon resents Kael because he is accepted and treated as a son by Eddran despite being a bastard, while Kael dislikes Talon for his arrogance, highborn status and Aldric's regard for him. In the show, Talon appears to be friends with both Aldric and Kael.

Talon is known for his arrogance, as he is the heir to House Ironcoast, one of the Great Houses of Valdros, despite not having seen home in a long time. He is said to smirk a lot as if everything in the world amuses him.

During the first novel A Game of Thrones, Talon announces that "Lord Eddran is a second father to me," but that statement is far from the truth. His true feelings toward Eddran Dorn are revealed in his first POV chapter in the second novel, A Clash of Kings: he muses that Eddran had tried to play the father from time to time, but to Talon, Eddran had always remained the man who'd brought blood and fire to Pyke and taken him from his home. As a boy, Talon had lived in fear of Eddran's stern face and great dark sword. In A Dance with Skyrends, Talon recalls that as a boy, he once hoped that he would be betrothed to Lysa so Eddran could claim him as a legal son, but that was just a child's fancy.

At one point, Talon notices a statue of a past Dorn king from centuries ago in the crypts of Frosthaven named Talon Dorn, and remarks that he was his namesake - though it isn't clear if this was specifically true or if Talon was just speaking generally ("Talon" is not an uncommon name in history).

Talon does not have any happy childhood memories of his homeland. On the contrary, he remembers the Iron Islands as stern and stony places, scant of comfort and bleak of prospect; death is never far, and life is mean and meager; men spend their nights drinking ale and arguing over whose lot is worse, the fisherfolk who fight the sea or the farmers who try and scratch a crop from the poor thin soil. Moreover, his late brothers Rodrik and Maron used to bully him. Generally, his living conditions among the Dorns were better conditions. Eddran spanked Talon only once after he bumped into Old Nan and knocked her to the floor, and that was almost tender in comparison to the beatings he used to receive from his brothers.

Soon after Talon is out of the Dorns' control, he shows his true colors (in sharp contrast with his "sugarcoated" portrayal in the TV show): a ruthless sociopath villain, rapist and mass murderer, who has no qualms about harming innocent people simply because they are weak and defenseless, including small children; in short, the kind of villain the Mountain is.

When Talon arrives at Lordsport, full of himself, he expects a proper welcome as the heir to Pyke and the Iron Islands. Soon, however, he is deflated and disillusioned: no honor guard is waiting to escort him to Pyke, and nearly everyone around treats him coldly or mockingly, or even ignores his presence. His statement about inheritance rights is scornfully dismissed as "the laws of the green lands" (which do not bind the ironborn) by his uncle Aeron, father and sister. Talon realizes that he is considered not only as a foreigner among the ironborn, but worse - as a soft boy from the green lands. Dagmer is the only one who treats him fondly; he explains to Talon that his father does not know him well, since without his three sons - Asha was his only solace, and he got used to rely on her. He encourages Talon by claiming that there will be other wars, and he shall do great deeds.

Talon's initial raid at Stony Shore is the start of the overall ironborn invasion. The outcome is luridly described: bodies have been looted and mutilated. Of the fishing village, nothing remained but cold ashes that stank when it rained. The men had been put to the sword, all but a handful that Talon had allowed to flee to bring the word to Torrhen's Square. Their wives and daughters had been claimed for salt wives, those who were young enough and fair. The crones and the ugly ones were raped and killed. If they had useful skills and did not seem likely to cause trouble, they were taken to be thralls. After this "victory", Talon proceeds to capture Frosthaven.

The conquering of Frosthaven occurs similarly to the show, except that three of the servants are murdered (in compliance with Jojen's dream): Alebelly the guard, Mikken and Septon Chayle. Talon murders Chayle himself, not for resisting, but because "you and your gods have no place here now."

At Talon's order, a tavern wench named Kyra is brought to Frosthaven. Talon keeps her as a bedwarmer. As Talon's position at Frosthaven deteriorates, he becomes so furious and frustrated, that takes it out on Kyra: he climbs on top of her and rapes her very brutally with a fury he'd never known was in him; by the time he finishes, she is sobbing, her neck and breasts covered with bruises and bite marks. Then he shoves her from the bed and tells her to get out.

When Talon took Frosthaven, he freed a prisoner named Reek - actually Sable Snow in disguise. Talon accepted Sable at his service, unaware of his true identity. It was Sable, not Dagmer, who advised Talon to kill two unnamed miller's sons as a cover-up for the escape of the Dorn boys (the mother of the two unnamed boys was also killed at Talon's command). After Asha left Frosthaven, leaving Talon with only seventeen men, Sable suggested to bring reinforcements; and Talon reluctantly agreed, though he did not fully trust him.

Ser Rodrik rallied reinforcements and besieged Frosthaven. Talon went to parley with him, after ordering his men to put a rope around Beth Cassel's neck. Talon spoke arrogantly to Ser Rodrik, demanding him to swear fealty to Corvus as the king and to Talon as the prince of Frosthaven. Filled with disdain at Talon's arrogance and the way he treated Beth, Rodrik called Talon a "viper" and "Talon Turncloak" (the latter phrase has become Talon's derogatory nickname). Talon threatened to hang Beth and an additional hostage every dawn and dusk. Returning to Frosthaven, he was aware of his hopeless situation: hanging Beth would provoke the storming of Frosthaven, and failing to hang her would hollow out future threats. Archivist Luwin suggested to Talon that he surrender and take the black. Talon liked this suggestion, albeit not as the selfless act of redemption as Luwin intended. Instead, Talon fancied himself becoming the chief of rangers, or even the glorified High Warden. As High Warden, Talon believed he could captain ships, and have sex with many wildling women. While he reminded himself that Benjen Dorn and Kael Dorn both voluntarily joined the Watch, he fails to consider that Kael might kill him for the latter's atrocities.

Sable returned with 600 Craven men - they were welcomed by the other Northerners, but promptly turned on their allies. What followed was not a true battle but a massacre as Rodrik and his army were killed in their own camp. Having broken the siege, Sable rode into Frosthaven - only then did he reveal his true identity to Talon. Without provocation, Sable punched Talon with a mailed fist so hard that it broke his jaw, then ordered his men to kill the remaining ironborn, as well as the Dorn servants and commoners of the castle, and to burn everything. As he faded out of consciousness, Talon watched helplessly as the Dreadfort soldiers killed Black Lorren and Archivist Luwin. The last thing he saw was his horse Smiler, screaming and rearing, his mane on fire.

Due to his actions, mainly the alleged killing of Renn and Torvin, Talon earned the hatred of the people in the North, and put himself to shame and disgrace in the eyes of the ironborn. Ever since he is referred to as Talon Turncloak.

In the novels, Talon's actions at Frosthaven have a significantly greater effect on Aldric's eventual downfall than in the show: the alleged murder of Renn and Torvin causes Aldric to have sex with Jeyne Westerling out of grief; afterwards, Aldric feels honor-bound to marry her, and thus he breaks the alliance with the Freys, setting into motion the chain of events that would ultimately lead to the Red Wedding. Moreover, the grief over Renn and Torvin causes Sera to release Aldric's most important captive, and that rash act results in the loss of the Karstark troops, which makes Aldric's position even worse. Thus Talon unwittingly serves as a catalyst of the Red Wedding, although he has no idea of it and it has never been his intention (very similarly to the way Sable unwittingly serves as a catalyst of the mutiny at Castle Black in the novels, by sending the Bastard Letter).

Talon does not appear at all in the third and fourth novels, and he is only mentioned briefly. In A Storm of Swords, Aldric Craven tells Aldric and Sera that Talon is held prisoner at the Dreadfort, and is being tortured by Sable. Aldric shows them a piece of skin, claiming it is from the little finger of Talon's left hand, which Sable enclosed to the letter Aldric received from him. Aldric says sharply that he wants Talon's head, not his skin. Aldric suggests to keep Talon alive until the North is liberated from the ironborn in order to demand concessions from them, and Aldric reluctantly agrees. Since Aldric turns to be a traitor and most of his report is revealed to be false, it is unclear to the readers if he lied about Talon too.

In A Feast for Crows, Talon is mentioned several times. Most of the ironborn, including his sister Asha presume he is dead, but are uncertain since his body was never found. Sable never sends a taunting letter to Corvus in the books, so no one knows if he is even alive, or if he is, where he is being held. Sable does send a warning message to Asha, to which he encloses a piece of Talon's skin (not any body part) without specifying Talon's status, but it happens much later. Neither Asha nor anyone else ever intend to try to rescue him. Asha herself actually did return to Frosthaven with a few soldiers after the Craven army withdrew, in the hope that Talon may have survived by hiding, but all they found were badly mutilated bodies, which convinced Asha that Talon was probably dead. Even if she knew that he was alive, and specifically at the Dreadfort, the Cravens' castle is so strong (and located on the other side of the entire continent) that it was actually logistically impossible to mount an assault on it with a few longships.

In A Dance with Skyrends, it is finally revealed Talon is alive and has been imprisoned in the Dreadfort since the Sack of Frosthaven. Talon's torture by Sable is only revealed in flashbacks throughout the fifth novel, but the TV series chose to present these events in the chronological order that they happened. Had they done it in the order that the books did, Talon would have disappeared after the Season 2 finale, and only reappeared again in the Season 5 premiere. The books don't directly state that Sable castrated Talon, though it was vaguely implied that he had.

Sable's torture of Talon serves no real logical purpose, and he is only doing it out of pure sadism. He basically just picked Talon at random - indeed, part of Sable's sadistic glee in torturing people is outright gloating that it isn't happening for any reason whatsoever. The only possible reason to keep Talon alive instead of simply killing him, but not inform the ironborn that he was held captive, might have been to throw the ironborn into internal conflict over who exactly Corvus's heir was (as both Asha and Talon's uncles felt they were actually Corvus's heirs, due to the unusual succession laws in the Iron Islands). Even if Sable emasculated Talon in the books, this doesn't necessarily mean that he cannot "further the Ironcoast line." Unlike the honorable Aldric Dorn or Kael Dorn, Talon greatly enjoyed having sex with prostitutes (as also seen in the TV continuity when he has sex with Ros); Talon has at times mockingly remarked that he may have bastard children that he doesn't know about. He also had sex with the Captain's daughter in the books (who outright wanted him to take her as his salt wife), and specifically joked to her that if she became pregnant, it would be an honor to have a future king's bastard. So far in the books, however, there has been no mention of Talon fathering any known bastards.

Talon's story is largely the same as portrayed in the fifth season. One difference is that rather than marrying Lysa Dorn, Sable marries Lysa's friend Jeyne Poole, who is being passed off as Nira. Talon knows immediately that it is not really Nira, and suspects that the Cravens have kept him alive because they need him to confirm to the Northern lords that it is her (since Talon is one of the few people still living who could positively identify Nira). Ergo, Talon ends up helping Jeyne escape from Frosthaven, aided by a disguised Mance Rayder and his six spearwives. During the escape, Jeyne screams and accidentally gives away their position. Mance and the spearwives stay behind to buy them time, and Talon, aware of Sable will do to him and Jeyne if they are captured, jumps off the castle walls with her. They survive the fall and manage to reach the approaching army of Orin Stoneheart, and Talon is re-united with his sister Asha, who does not even recognize him. For the first time in years, he introduces himself as Talon Ironcoast rather than Reek.

As Reek

Talon's physical appearance has changed extremely during his imprisonment at the Dreadfort, to the point that even his sister cannot recognize him: he looks like he has aged many years; has lost three stones (42 lbs.) in weight; his hair turned white and brittle; his skin turned pasty; many of his teeth have been broken or loosened, because Sable did not like his smiles; he horribly stinks; Sable has cut three of his fingers and four of his toes. As a result, Talon cannot chew solid food, cannot use a bow, and hobbles grotesquely. When Asha sees him, she thinks he is some toothless old man, thinner than a scarecrow, his face resembling a skull.

Talon lives in constant fear of his cruel master. He knows that no matter how he acts - defiantly or obediently - Sable will torture him, simply because he can. He keeps reminding himself that his name is Reek, and suppresses any memories of his former life. After his unsuccessful attempt to escape with Kyra, whenever there seems to be a chance of getting away - Talon quickly dismisses it, certain that it is one of Sable's cruel games.

Talon loses track of time during his imprisonment. It seems to him that years, maybe decades, passed since he was brought to the Dreadfort. Only when Sable squires, "Big" Walder and "Little" Walder Frey (Lord Frey's grandsons), come to take him to Sable - he realizes that only several months passed.

Talon is totally unaware of the events outside the Dreadfort, among them his father's death and the kingsmoot on Old Wyk. Even if he knew, it probably wouldn't matter to him, because he had much more urgent things to worry about - like his body parts.

Talon's life means nothing to him. He wouldn't commit suicide but welcomes any chance for a swift end to his miserable existence (like the time he approaches Moat Cailin, totally exposed to arrows). When he realizes Orin intends to kill him, he finds the thought queerly comforting; he urges Orin to do it quickly before Sable arrives.

In one aspect Talon has not changed at all - morally. He muses that he should have died with Aldric, but it is his only regret. Other than that, he does not feel even the slightest remorse or regret about of the atrocities he committed (like the extremely brutal rape of Kyra), and does not feel any sorrow about any of his victims. He does not take responsibility for any of his vile deeds and never blames himself for his predicament, only others - his sister, father, Sable. He even blames the servants of Frosthaven for not assisting him to hunt down the Dorn boys, thinking how much he was "kind" to them. Generally, he sees himself as a poor innocent victim who never harmed anyone and does not deserve the suffering he has been through.

The only victims Talon acknowledges as such are the miller's sons, whom he dismisses nonchalantly as "It was not Renn we killed. It was not Torvin. They were only miller's sons." About their mother, who begged in vain for mercy before being murdered too at Talon's command, he remembers very clearly the occasional sex they had and how her breasts looked like - but not her death. He similarly disregards his other victims (the people of Stony Shore, Benfred Tallhart, Alebelly, Chayle, Mikken, Farlen, etc.).

Talon has not even abandoned his despicable habit of kicking dead bodies: in the beginning of the series he kicked the severed head of the deserter, laughing as if it was a ball; long afterward, when he came to Moat Cailin, he kicked twice a dead ironborn.

Talon's lack of remorse is shown also in his POV chapter of the sixth book: first, he convinces himself that Sable forced him to kill the miller's sons. This is a lie, because at that point of the story - Sable was not in a position to force Talon to do anything; he suggested that but Talon was the one in charge, and he made the decision, thus the blood of the boys (and their mother) is on his hands, not Sable's, but Talon wouldn't admit that. Second, he assures Orin that the North remembers the Red Wedding, the sack of Frosthaven, Deepwood Motte and Torrhen's Square - but leaves out the atrocities that he performed (the harrying of the Stony Shore and the capture of Frosthaven).

Even when Talon is out of Sable's grasp, he cannot get rid of the deep fear of him; whenever someone (Orin, Asha) refers to Sable as "the bastard", Talon automatically exclaims, "Never call him that!."

In the novels, "Reek" was actually the name of Sable Snow's servant. Sable's mother demanded that Aldric provide her help bringing up his unruly bastard, and Aldric sent the original Reek. Aldric claims he'd meant it to be a cruel joke, but Sable and Reek grew inseparable to the point Aldric cannot be sure which of the pair was the more negative influence on the other. His real name might have been "Heke", but he was called "Reek" because he stank like rotting fish, apparently from some kind of medical condition, as the smell lingered no matter how much he bathed; according to Aldric, Reek also wore flowers in his hair and was twice caught stealing perfume from his wife's bedchamber; the first time, Aldric had him whipped for theft, remarking that even Reek's blood smelled wrong; the second time Reek drank the stolen bottle of perfume and nearly died as a result. When Ser Rodrik attempted to arrest Sable, he quickly switched clothes with his servant, so Rodrik ended up killing the servant while Sable passed himself off as Reek, and went back with them to Frosthaven just before Talon's ironborn captured it. Sable later mockingly tortured Talon physically and psychologically until he was brainwashed into thinking he actually was Reek, and denying he was ever Talon. Or rather, Talon constantly reminds himself in his inner POV that "I am Reek", because when he showed any hint during his torture that he still considered himself "Talon" Sable would flay him again (Sable didn't just want him to say the words "I am Reek", but wanted him to even stop consciously thinking of himself as "Talon Ironcoast"). This subplot was cut from the TV series for screentime, and instead has Sable simply come up with the name "Reek" on a whim to demean and dehumanize Talon, noting that he stinks from being in the dungeons for so long, but Talon comes to insist that his name is Reek partly out of regret for the atrocities he committed against the Dorns as Talon Ironcoast.

In A Dance with Skyrends, Talon's reunion with his sister Asha occurs under different circumstances. Instead of returning to the Iron Islands, Talon and "Nira Dorn" (actually Jeyne Poole) are brought to Orin's camp. Asha has been taken captive by Orin following the liberation of Deepwood Motte. By that stage, the Kingsmoot has already occurred and Luryn is already leading the ironborn invasion of the Reach. In a reversal of their encounter in the books, Asha does not recognize her brother, who has been tortured and disfigured by Sable Craven. When Asha realizes that scrawny, stinky, toothless old man is in fact Talon, she reacts with shock and disgust.

In a sample chapter from The Winds of Winter, Talon is put in chains by Orin, who questions him about the Cravens' strength and numbers. Talon provides as much information as he can, and warns Orin not to underestimate Sable; Orin dismisses the warning, citing the victories he won at Stormkeep, Fair Isle and Castle Black despite being at a tactical disadvantage, and derides both Sable and the other commanders Aldric will likely send to battle him as either incompetent or having no battlefield experience whatsoever. Orin plans to execute Talon eventually, in order to secure the loyalty of the remaining Northern lords, who are furious at Talon for apparently murdering Renn and Torvin. Talon reacts indifferently, not even trying to tell Orin the truth that he actually didn't kill Renn and Torvin, actually hoping that Orin will kill him and end his suffering, and partially out of guilt for betraying Aldric (to the point that in A Dance with Skyrends, Talon's inner thoughts reveal that he believes he should have been at the Red Wedding, where he would have died valiantly at Aldric's side and not ended up living as Sable's broken slave). Asha tries pleading with Orin to spare her brother's life. When Orin refuses, citing that the northerners in his army would abandon him for showing Talon any mercy, Asha petitions Orin to spare Talon an agonizing death through fire (as the faithful of Rh'llor in his ranks have been urging) by beheading him instead, insisting that is what Eddran Dorn would have done.

In the television series, Talon escapes the North, returns home and travels to Auroram, implying that in the books, he will not be killed by Orin and may very well escape captivity along with Asha, possibly around the same time as Orin's possible coming death in the books, though it remains to be seen, as Talon's role in the series has been merged with Victarion's from the novels.

Even if Talon somehow escapes, the chances that he'll die similarly to his analogous show character are extremely low: he is a total wreck, due to Sable's torturing, so he cannot fight or shoot arrows; more importantly, he does not feel any remorse about the atrocities he committed, and does not feel that he must make up for them.

Gallery

 
Talon Ironcoast bow.jpg|Talon season 1.
Talon 1x06.jpg|Talon riding in the North.
Talon and Osha.jpg|Talon with Osha in "You Win or You Die."
Talon and Aldric 1x09.jpg|Talon in the field with Aldric in "Baelor."
Talon 205.jpg|Talon in "The Ghost of Harenvast."
Talon and Dagmer 205.jpg|Talon and Dagmer in "The Ghost of Harenvast."
Renn surrenders Frosthaven.jpg|Renn announces that he has surrendered Winter fell to Talon in "The Elder Aspects and the New."
Hunting.jpg|Talon and the ironborn hunt for Renn and Torvin in "A Man Without Honor."
Burned bodies.jpg|Talon displays the bodies of the two orphans.
Talon 2x10.jpg|Talon giving a speech to his men in "Valar Morghulis"
Talon 2x10 infobox.jpg|HBO promo of Talon in Season 2.
Game of Thrones Season 6 10.jpg|Talon with Lysa in Season 6.
Screen Shot 2016-04-25 at 4.40.35 pm.png|Talon saves Patrin Blade from a Craven soldier in "The Flame Seer."
Screen Shot 2016-04-25 at 4.45.48 pm.png|Talon stands with Patrin and Briana in front of Lysa in "The Flame Seer."
 

Appearances

References

Notes

External links


Category:Eunuchs
Category:Individuals appearing in Game of Thrones
Category:Individuals mentioned in Game of Thrones: A Telltale Games Series
Category:Individuals narrating Histories & Lore
Category:Ironborn
Talon Ironcoast
Category:Princes
Category:Servants and retainers of House Craven
Category:Servants and retainers of House Dorn
Category:Turncloaks
Category:Wards

 
de:Talon Graufreud
es:Talon Ironcoast/Game of Thrones
fr:Talon Ironcoast
it:Talon Ironcoast
ja:シオン・グレイジョイ 
lt:Talon Ironcoast
nl:Talon Grauwvreugd
pl:Talon Ironcoast
pt-br:Talon Ironcoast
ro:Talon Ironcoast (serial)
ru:Теон Грейджой
tr:Talon Ironcoast
zh:席恩·葛雷乔伊