{{Character


Grunn, often called Grunn Ironjaw, is a renowned warrior and raider among the Free Clans and one of the key leaders behind Mance Rayder. Grunn respected Mance as the King-Beyond-the-Wall and suspected he was the man to lead them through the Great Frost. As time passes and Mance is killed on the orders of Orin Stoneheart, he believes the prophesied warrior is his enemy-turned-friend, Kael Dorn. 

Biography

Background

Grunn is a trusted leader in his own right of a large warband of wildlings. He has joined his forces to those of King-Beyond-the-Wall Mance Rayder, and now functions as one of Mance's most trusted lieutenants. Grunn is not just a capable leader, but also a very dangerous fighter. This is proven during the battle for the Wall, where he killed multiple Veil Guard brothers and clearly outmatched Ser Alliser Thorne in single combat and Lord Smalljon Umber at the Battle of the Bastards. He boasts of having bedded a she-bear. Kira Freeborn insists that everyone knows he just made this story up. Grunn makes much of his capacity for drink and sexual encounters, usually as a means of raising his allies' morale. He is extremely loyal to those who have fought alongside him, even Kael Dorn, who once betrayed him and the wildlings.

Grunn has two daughters, though he hasn't mentioned if he has any sons.

Game of Thrones: Season 3

When Kael Dorn is taken to Mance Rayder's tent by the Lord of Bones and Kira Freeborn, he initially believes Grunn is Mance and kneels before him. Grunn is amused though Mance's suspicions of Kael makes Grunn wary. He quickly deduces the romantic tension between Kael and Kira Freeborn. As Mance's army marches away from the Frostfangs, Grunn, alongside Kira Freeborn, accompanies Orell as Orell performs scouting duties by warging into his eagle.

Grunn accompanies Mance, along with Orell, Kira Freeborn, and Kael Dorn, to the Fist of the First Men, where they see the mutilated horse corpses left behind by the Frost Wraiths after the fight at the Fist. Mance commands Grunn to climb the Wall along with twenty raiders and Kael Dorn, and wait for his signal to attack Castle Black from behind.

As Grunn's party comes closer to the Wall, Grunn questions Kael about the "crows" patrolling the top of the Wall spotted by Orell's eagle. Kael explains that the patrols are two builders and two rangers. Orell then questions Kael about the castles still manned by the Watch and the number of men in the garrison of Castle Black, disbelieving Kael's claim that a thousand men defend it. When Orell and Kira Freeborn, who defends Kael, are about to start a fight, Grunn puts a stop to it throwing Orell away. Grunn tells Kael he likes him but will kill him nonetheless if he's lying. Kael remains adamant on his lie, but Grunn remains doubtful.

Grunn's party camps at a patch of the Haunted Forest that has been left unchecked and grown close to the Wall. Grunn comments to Kael that, once, crows would cut down any the trees within a mile of the Wall. When Kael asks Kira Freeborn if she's ever climbed the Wall she confesses she hasn't, but Grunn has done it many times. After a few minutes, Grunn approaches Kael again and gives him a climbing pick. He advises Kael to sink it deep into the ice of the Wall and make sure it holds before taking the next step. He then jokes that if he falls, he better not scream because he wouldn't want that be the last thing Kira Freeborn remembers about him.

Grunn's party breaks into four smaller groups to climb the Wall. Grunn leads one of them, with Orell, Kira Freeborn, and Kael sharing the same rope. Grunn's pick breaks a piece of ice that causes Kael to briefly lose his footing. The wildling leader jokes that he wanted to see if he could take a hit. The raiding party climb further, but a portion of the Wall breaks down, taking one of the groups to their deaths. The ice keeps breaking and Grunn nails his pick hard to prevent them from falling, but Kira Freeborn and Kael do drop, and end up dangling in the air. Grunn holds the rope with one hand but Orell begins cutting the rope to prevent Kael and Kira Freeborn from bringing them down. Kael reaches the ice just as Orell cuts Kira Freeborn loose. Later, the group reaches an abandoned watchpost of the Veil Guard. Kira Freeborn and Kael reach the top as Grunn gathers his rope.

Grunn and the raiding party climb down from the Wall and begin their march to take Castle Black unaware. Some time later, the party encamps in a forest area of the Gift. Grunn jokingly gives Kael some advice on how to properly have sex with a woman before ordering the group to begin the march again.

Some time afterward, Grunn's party reach the hut of a man who breeds horses for the Veil Guard. Orell advises attacking the man and killing him for his horses and gold. Grunn muses he may have good steel. Kael argues to spare the man and just take the horses, as the Watch will send fewer men to track down thieves than for a murderer. Grunn hopes for more men as it will be easier to kill them in the open than in Castle Black. Grunn orders his men to spread out to attack the hut. The man escapes after his horses react to a noise made by Kael to warn him.

Grunn and his men capture the man at an abandoned mill. Orell manages to hear noise inside the mill - it's Renn and Torvin Dorn, along with Jojen and Meera Reed, Osha, and Borran - but Grunn dismisses it as thunder from the rain that is just beginning. Grunn then questions the man about where he was riding. The man refuses to answer because he'll die anyway, and Grunn admits he's right. Grunn bares his sword to kill the man, who asks to die standing up, but Orell intervenes and demands that Kael kill the man. Grunn orders Kael to do it, but Kael hesitates. Kira Freeborn carries out the execution after Kael is unable to. Orell goads Grunn into killing Kael to prevent him from betraying them and Grunn relents, ordering his men to kill Kael. Grunn restrains Kira Freeborn when she tries to interfere to protect her lover. As Kira Freeborn rages, he tells her not to die for a crow. Several members of Grunn's party, among them Orell, are killed by Kael as well as Summer and Shaggydog, who arrive following a hunt.

Game of Thrones: Season 4

Grunn has his raiding party encamped in a stone ravine south of the Wall. Grunn chides Kira Freeborn for failing to finish off Kael Dorn; he has enough faith in her as an archer to believe that if Kael escaped, it was because she allowed him to. Suddenly, their scouts signal that someone is approaching. Styr and a band of Thenns approach them through the ravine. Out of earshot, Grunn comments about how much he hates Thenns. Styr says his party raided a village south of the ravine and gathered meat. He says the meat tastes so much better south of the Wall, and chides Grunn for losing their warg as well as Kael. He reminds Grunn how the Veil Guard are feasting and getting fat at Castle Black. Styr suggests that Grunn taste crow meat before he dies, as a human arm roasts over a fire.

Grunn and Styr lead a raid on a village south of the Wall. When one villager attempts to attack Grunn from behind, Kira Freeborn shoots him before he can strike and Grunn finishes him off. Styr sends Olly to Castle Black as a message to the brothers of the Veil Guard. Grunn and Styr attack the settlement of Mole's Town. They slaughter all of the inhabitants, which include members of the Veil Guard who were visiting the local brothel. News of this attack reaches Castle Black, which is their next target.

Grunn takes part in the rear assault on Castle Black, being the first one to infiltrate the fortress. He kills many black brothers and then engages Alliser Thorne in single combat. They are evenly matched, but Grunn manages to seriously wound Ser Alliser, who is then pulled to safety by his fellow black brothers. Grunn continues his rampage along the Castle, despite receiving multiple wounds from arrows and swords. After all of the rear assault forces are slain, only Grunn remains and is incapacitated by a crossbow bolt from Kael Dorn. He is then taken prisoner for interrogation.

After Mance's forces on the other side of the Wall are defeated by the surprise appearance of Orin Stoneheart, Kael comes to Grunn, who has had his wounds tended to by Archivist Aemon. Kael informs Grunn that they will be burning the dead wildlings' bodies and asks if he wishes to say any words in their memory. Grunn scoffs at the idea, telling him that the dead can't hear them. Grunn then asks Kael if he loved Kira Freeborn and explains that Kira Freeborn had truly loved Kael, her constant talk of killing him being proof of that. Grunn solemnly requests that Kael take Kira Freeborn's body north of the Wall to burn it, since that's what she would have wanted. Kael complies with Grunn's wish and soon after has Kira Freeborn's body burned on a funeral pyre beyond the Wall.

Game of Thrones: Season 5

Grunn, alongside his fellow wildlings, are present when Mance Rayder is executed by Orin Stoneheart for refusing to bend the knee. He is visibly distressed to see his king and longtime friend executed in such a brutal manner, being burned alive at the stake. However, before Mance is burnt, Kael mercifully shoots him dead with an arrow, an act that Grunn would remember as honorable. With Mance Rayder dead, Grunn becomes the new leader of the remnants of the wildling army.

Once Orin leaves the jurisdiction of the wildling prisoners to High Warden Kael Dorn, he suggested that Grunn might be more open to forming the same alliance Mance Rayder rejected. Some time later, Kael meets with a chained Grunn to discuss what will happen with the wildlings next. Kael offers Grunn lands south of the Wall for the wildlings to settle after they have rounded up the surviving Free Clans north of the Wall in return for their help in defeating the Frost Wraiths when they march on the Wall. Grunn is reluctant at first, and after Kael unchains him, he discloses that most of the remaining Free Clans who are north of the Wall are at Hardhome. Kael offers him horses and men to bring them back, yet Grunn states that they will also need ships in order to bring all the wildlings to Castle Black, and that Kael must accompany them to assure the Free Clans they will not simply set fire to all the ships and kill them all. Kael agrees and says he will borrow the ships from Orin, which he later does, just before Orin abandons Castle Black and marches on Frosthaven.

Days later, Grunn alongside Kael Dorn, Dolorous Edd and other brothers of the Veil Guard, leaves Castle Black for Eastwatch to board the ships that take them to Hardhome.

Grunn and Kael, along with other members of the Veil Guard and the Free Clans, arrive at the wildling town Hardhome to convince the rest of the wildlings to join them in the upcoming war against the Frost Wraiths and their armies of Frostborn. Insisting on never being an ally with a Crow, The Lord of Bones insults Grunn for being at the side of Kael Dorn, causing Grunn to beat his former ally to death with his own staff. The wildling elders decide to gather in the town hall to hear Kael, who quickly proposes an alliance between the Free Clans and the Veil Guard in the face of their common enemy, the undead. Having not seen Mance Rayder since he was taken prisoner at The Veil, the wildlings question his whereabouts. Snow reluctantly informs them that he is dead and that he shot him personally, with an arrow. This angers the group, but as they move in to kill him, Grunn vouches for him, describing how Rayder was about to be burned at the stake as a warning from Orin Stoneheart, and how Snow defied Orin by ending his life quickly instead of humiliating him. Some leaders are convinced, but others begin to leave.

A few hours later Grunn is helping the Veil Guard load the boats and Kael queries how many wildlings have boarded estimating about 5,000 and worried that they are leaving too many behind. Grunn says he's not good at counting but that the wildlings are stubborn however, more will join because "they're running out of food and there's nothing to hunt".

A large host of undead wights then storm Hardhome and start breaking through the gate and wall separating a small segment of Hardhome. Kael and Grunn fight alongside others to give as many people as possible an opportunity to make it to their ships. Edd Tollett, Wun Wun, and others are trapped inside the town hall, which is set upon by wights and catches fire – in the confusion, the bag of dragonglass weapons is lost. On top of a hill overlooking Hardhome, multiple Frost Wraiths mounted on undead horses observe the battle, including The Night's King. The Frost Wraiths deploy another large host of wights, hurling them over the cliffs above Hardhome. Kael, Edd, Grunn and the remaining defenders flee for their lives. Flanked by Wun Wun, who wields a burning log as a club before walking into the sea with them, they manage to get to the last remaining boat and quickly row out to a safe distance. As Kael and the others look on in horror, the Night's King raises his arms triumphantly; all around him, the slain wildlings rise up as undead wights.

Days later, Kael, Grunn, and the surviving few thousand wildlings from Hardhome, arrive at the Wall, presumably in two groups, before the gates of Castle Black and are allowed through by a very reluctant Ser Alliser Thorne.

Game of Thrones: Season 6

In response to Kael Dorn's death at the hands of mutineers led by Alliser Thorne, Eddison Tollett leaves to find Grunn and the wildlings and get their help in the coming struggle for their lives against Thorne and his men. After Edd finds him, Grunn leads the wildlings to attack Castle Black. Once inside, Grunn quickly kills a brother who attacks him, and with help from Wun Wun, who throws another against a wall, the rest surrender without a fight. After the mutineers are detained, Grunn examines Kael's body, then asks Maron to burn it as quickly as possible to avoid reanimation as a wight. However, Ser Maron Saltbane believes that he could be resurrected naturally by the red priestess, Seraphel. However, when she attempts to resurrect Kael, and is the first to leave the room when she seemingly fails, seconds before Kael awakens in a delayed reaction.

When Kael awakens and is clothed by Maron, Grunn sees Kael coming from the room and explains that the wildlings think that he is a god. Grunn then remarks how he knows Kael isn't a god as no god would have a penis as small as his. He proceeds to hug Kael and welcomes him back. Grunn later watches the execution of the mutineers in the crowd.

When Lysa Dorn arrives at Castle Black with Briana Stoneguard and Patrin Blade, a surprised Grunn can't stop staring at Briana, then witnesses Lysa's reunion with Kael, her half-brother. Grunn later shares a meal with Kael, Lysa, Briana, Patrin and Edd. As he eats, Grunn gives Briana a flirtatious glance. When Kael reads a letter from Sable Craven, Grunn stops eating and listens intently, visibly angered at Sable's threats to the wildlings. Grunn asks Lysa how many men Sable has. Lysa claims he has around five thousand, and Grunn tells Kael that from the thousands of wildlings they saved from Hardhome, only two thousand are able to fight.

Grunn attends a war council with Kael, Lysa, Maron, Briana, Patrin and Edd, concerning the Northern loyalists that will fight for House Dorn. He remains silent while listening to Kael, Lysa and Maron's strategies. While leaving Castle Black, Grunn again gazes at Briana with lust, leaving Briana uneasy.

Grunn is present as Kael attempts to convince Dim Dalba to join his cause, along with the remaining wildling forces. Dim suggests that Kael is violating the original agreement, as the Free Clans were not required to fight the Cravens. Kael insists that if his army is defeated, the Cravens, Karstarks, and Umbers will inevitably march on the Free Clans settled in The Gift. Grunn reminds Dim that Kael died for them, and exclaims that if they were not willing to do the same for him, they were cowards; and they deserved to be the last Free Clans. Wun Wun stands up and proclaims "Snow", confirming his allegiance. Consequently, Dim and the wildlings agree to join Kael and Lysa's campaign to recapture Frosthaven for House Dorn.

After the meeting, Grunn assures Kael that the wildlings will be present at the battle. He does so by reminding Kael that the Free Clans aren't as manipulative as Southerners, and that they will keep their word.

Prior to the battle, Grunn attends the parley between Kael Dorn and Sable Craven. Lysa refuses Sable's terms of surrender and the Dorn party returns to their camp. That night, Grunn is a part of Kael's war council where he cautions Kael of Sable's cavalry that would tear the wildling forces apart. Grunn and Maron leave the tent and discuss their current situation. Grunn believes there is hope for a victory as the Cravens have never fought the Free Clans. They discuss their experiences serving Kings and Grunn reminds Maron that Orin burnt Mance, a man unworthy of the fate he suffered. Grunn reaffirms to Maron that he believed in Mance, just as Maron believed in Orin. Maron suggests that perhaps their mistake was placing their faith in Kings. Grunn reminds him that Kael is not a King and offers Maron a jug of sour goat's milk, Maron declines, stating he prefers to walking and thinking in solitude before a battle. During the Battle of the Bastards, Grunn once again fights alongside Kael. After is Torvin is killed, Grunn is concerned that Kael will charge alone. As Kael charges full tilt, Maron gives the command for the Dorn cavalry to charge.

Grunn leads the infantry that follows. In the midst of the battle, Grunn saves Kael from a Craven infantryman who almost overwhelms him. Visibly shaken, Kael is helped off the ground by Grunn who ascertains if he is okay. As the Dorn forces are surrounded, Grunn repeatedly attempts to break the Craven pike phalanx but is ultimately overwhelmed. Pushed beyond his limits, Grunn panics and sends his wildlings towards the hill of corpses. This unintentionally causes Kael to be trampled by the stampede, nearly suffocating him. Grunn is confronted by Lord Smalljon Umber and is soon overpowered by him. As the Dorn forces are about to lose, the Knights of the Vale arrive, smashing the Craven forces apart. While Smalljon is distracted by the charge, Grunn bites his neck, then stabs him, killing him.

He, Kael and Wun Wun pursue Sable back to Frosthaven where Wun Wun breaks down the castle gate. As they storm the courtyard, Grunn and Kael watch in horror as Wun Wun succumbs to his injuries sustained during the battle and the siege. Sable looses an arrow into the giant's eye, killing him. Grunn uneasily watches as Kael advances on Sable and eventually subdues him. He is later present Kael with the body of his brother Torvin Dorn.

Grunn is later present when Kael is crowned the King in the North. He briefly disputes with Lord Yohn Royce, claiming that Kael invited him and the wildlings south of the Wall instead of them invading as Royce believed. Although by now a close friend and ally of Kael, he stays true to his beliefs and doesn't take part in hailing him king.

Game of Thrones: Season 7

As the castles at the wall are severely undermanned, Kael asks Grunn and the wildlings north to man them, to which Grunn agrees. Grunn is sent to Eastwatch-by-the-Sea, as this is the castle closest to Hardhome where the Pale Lord was last seen and, thus, a potential target. Before leaving, Grunn jokes that he and his Free Clans are the Veil Guard now. He later flirts with Briana, and remarks Patrin Blade is a "lucky man" as Briana knocks him to the ground.

A while later, Grunn is visited at Eastwatch by Kael, along with Forrin and Coran Steelbear, who have journeyed north to capture a wight to bring before Queens Mira Greyfel and Lyra Ashveil to convince them both of the common threat of the Pale Lord. Grunn quips that they are not the only ones and takes them to the ice cells, where he is holding Beric Dondarrion, Thoros of Myr, and Korryn Stonehound. During the ensuing exchange, Grunn learns Coran's real name and deduces he is the son of Jeor Steelbear, who hunted the wildlings "like animals", though Coran retorts that the wildlings did the same to the Veil Guard. Hostilities are quickly put aside when they all accept they are on the same side and Kael frees the Brotherhood.

Grunn joins Kael's expedition North to capture a wight. During the expedition, Grunn exchanges banter with Forrin and Kael Dorn. When Kael explains that Lyra will only ally with them if he submits to her rule, Grunn remarks that Kael has grown prideful and independent as a result of his time spent with the Free Clans. However, Grunn remarks that standing on pride can be a dangerous thing, using his late friend and leader Mance Rayder as an example. He later banters with Korryn Stonehound, the latter shooting down the idea of Grunn winning Briana's heart.

As they get closer to a pack of wights, they are attacked by an undead polar bear which mortally wounds Thoros but which is killed by Coran. Later, they ambush a pack of wights led by a Frost Wraith, and as soon as Kael slays the Walker, all but one of the wights fall lifeless. As the wight screams for help and Kael instructs Forrin to return to Eastwatch and send a raven to Lyra, Grunn implores him to leave his warhammer behind as it will slow him down.

The party ends up stranded in the middle of a frozen lake where Thoros eventually dies of his wounds. When the lake freezes over again, a fierce melee ensues. Grunn destroys many wights with a dragonglass battleaxe, but he is eventually tackled by two wights, who almost drag him underwater. He is saved at the last minute by Korryn. Lyra eventually arrives and saves them with her dragons, though Viserion is killed by the Pale Lord in the process, and they make it back to Eastwatch. Grunn helps them load the wight into a boat, and shares a farewell nod with Korryn in gratitude for saving his life.

Some time later, Grunn and Beric are manning Eastwatch's defenses when the army of the dead arrives, led by the Pale Lord astride a newly-reanimated Viserion. When Grunn sees the dragon bearing down on them, he screams for everyone to run. Grunn watches as Viserion burns right through the Wall, causing Eastwatch to collapse. Grunn manages to escape the direct onslaught dragon-fire and watches as both wildlings and watchers are killed by the downfall of ice.

Game of Thrones: Season 8

Grunn and Beric arrive at Last Hearth, accompanied by a group of surviving Brotherhood members and Free Clans. Investigating the castle, they find signs of a massacre but no corpses. Hearing a strange noise, they jump to attack, but stop after realizing they are Veil Guard members, led by acting High Warden Eddison Tollett. Edd mistakes Grunn for a wight because of blue his eyes, to which Grunn retorts they've always been blue. Coming to their senses, the group investigates deeper into the castle, discovering the body of Eddran Umber pinned to a wall and surrounded by limbs arranged in a spiral pattern, which Beric says is a message from the Pale Lord. Grunn, Beric and Edd then discuss their next move, with Grunn agreeing that if they combine horses, they can reach Frosthaven in time to warn Kael. Suddenly, Eddran, having risen as a wight raises a dagger to strike, but Beric quickly stabs him, igniting him with his flaming sword and setting both the boy and spiral on fire.

Sometime later, Grunn, Beric, and Edd arrive at Frosthaven. He joyfully greets Kael and tells him that the dead have already reached Last Hearth, and that whoever is still north of Frosthaven must already be dead. When Kael asks how long they'll have, Grunn claims that the dead will arrive before the sun comes up tomorrow. Grunn later attends a war meeting at Frosthaven, in which he states that while everyone is going to die; they will at least die together.

That evening, Grunn storms into a sit-together with Davan, Edran, Maron, Briana, and Patrin. He flirtatiously greets Briana, telling her that it might be their last night together. He later addresses Edran as "king-killer", and afterwards tells the story on how he came to be known as "Giantsbane".

He claims he slew a giant at the age of ten and crept into his wife's bed. As she woke, she suckled Grunn at her teat for three months, mistaking him for her baby; which is the reason why Grunn is so strong. Everyone looks at him in stunned silence at such a story, with Maron going for a drink, having refused one earlier. Grunn is later puzzled upon learning that Briana was never officially knighted, and states he would knight her "ten times over" for her bravery. After witnessing Briana's knighting by Edran, he celebrates her achievement with the others, only to be interrupted by three horn blasts, heralding the arrival of the Frost Wraiths.

Grunn fights in the Battle of Frosthaven, assisting with the defense of Frosthaven. After Nira kills the Pale Lord, all the Frostborn disintegrate, leaving the living victorious. However, the battle resulted in heavy casualties - claiming the lives of Coran and Kira Steelbear, Beric Dondarrion,Talon Ironcoast, and thousands of others. Grunn survived, along with Davan and Edran Greyfel, Nira and Lysa Dorn, Korryn Stonehound, Kael Dorn, Lyra Ashveil, and an untold number of other soldiers.

The morning after the battle, Grunn is present when Kael delivers his eulogy to the fallen. At the victory feast that evening, Grunn witnesses Forrin's legitimization and praises Kael for his heroism. As Grunn praises Kael for his heroism, he unintentionally feeds into Lyra' ongoing paranoia regarding Kael's better claim to the throne causing her to storm out of the celebrations. After being rejected by Briana once again, Grunn invites Korryn to join him with two Northern prostitutes, thought the Hound gruffly refuses.

The next morning, Grunn decides to return north of the Wall with the other Free Clans, despite being invited to stay in Valdros. Kael allows Grunn to take Ghost with him, stating a direwolf has no place in the south, to which Grunn replies that Kael would be happier with the Freeborn Clans. The two bid farewell and he watches Kael depart for Ironport.

Later, following the Battle of Ironport and Kael's subsequent exile to the Veil Guard, Grunn and Ghost greet Kael upon his arrival to Castle Black. Together, they leave with the Freeborn Clans for lands beyond the Wall.

Personality

Grunn Ironjaw is an extremely fierce and determined man and a born warrior of the Free Clans in almost every way. Aside from his excellent fighting skills and monstrous strength, Grunn is a supremely intimidating individual who immediately asserts that his enemies should be afraid of him, which he does in his first encounter with Kael Dorn, stating that men similar to Kael have met their ends trying to end Grunn's life in combat. Grunn is clearly hugely respected among his people, as evidenced by the immense responsibilities placed upon him by Mance Rayder during their campaign against the Veil Guard - namely to climb the Wall itself and enter the southern kingdoms on the other side. Grunn proved to be capable of great cruelty and brutality during this campaign, and in several others.

To his credit, Grunn is both dangerous and loyal in equal measure - as one of Mance Rayder's most trusted and terrifying lieutenants, eclipsing only Styr in that regard, Grunn followed the King Beyond the Veil's orders without hesitation or complaint and outright devoted himself to the task of fighting the Veil Guard in support of the plan that Mance had. His respect and love for Mance Rayder grew to the extent that he was seen simmering with rage during Mance's execution, despite not saying a single word. He cares tremendously about his own kind, protecting Kira Freeborn during the duel between Kael Dorn and Orell, preventing her from interfering or being killed for treachery by their companions. Earlier on, Grunn expressed that he would kill Kael if the latter was deceiving them, in spite of the fact that Grunn admittedly liked him. When Kael betrays them and escapes to Castle Black, Grunn shows skepticism that Kira Freeborn failed to kill Kael, citing his knowledge of her archery skills as support of his suspicions.

Grunn is capable of working well with those who were originally his enemies, albeit rather begrudgingly at first. Even though he stated outright that he hated Thenns, he willingly worked with Styr and his followers in the attack on Castle Black. When Styr was killed, Grunn became the last surviving commander of the wildlings besides Mance Rayder himself, and dueled Alliser Thorne blade-to-blade, gaining the upper hand against but not killing the man. Grunn was different from some wildlings: he was not nearly as sadistic as Styr was, nor as cruel as Rattleshirt, nor as vindictive as Orell; he proved all three of these things by working with Kael Dorn for the benefit of his people after the death of Mance Rayder. Grunn's loyalty to Kael Dorn shone in his support of the bastard during the Massacre at Hardhome, where Grunn aided Kael in gaining the trust and allegiance of the Free Clans. He outright declared that the crow was courageous for defying Orin Stoneheart and giving Mance Rayder the gift of mercy; he also respectfully assured Kael that Kira Freeborn loved him, and requested that she be cremated in the north, where she belonged. He also joined Eddison Tollett in returning to Castle Black to avenge Kael, before serving as one of the man's fiercest lieutenants during the climactic Battle of the Bastards. He advanced his capacity to adapt by working with the other Valdrosi lords after the victory in the North as a representative of his people.

The Giantsbane was a man with a sense of humor to match his ferocity: upon encountering the resurrected Kael Dorn, Grunn remarked that his people thought Kael to be a god, but cited his knowledge to the contrary since a god wouldn't have a 'pecker' as small as Kael's. When the wildlings moved to avenge Kael, and Alliser cited that the Veil Guard had repelled the wildlings for centuries, Grunn bluntly replied 'until you'. He also glibly remarked how the wildlings had ironically become the 'Veil Guard' after this victory.

To some extent, Grunn was not at all above violence against other wildlings, even though he cared about the vast majority of them. This is shown outright when Grunn faces Rattleshirt and, when pushed by the belligerent wildling, Grunn savagely beats him to death with his own weapon, then demands that the present wildlings gather the elders without paying any mind to the man he has just bludgeoned.

Quotes

Spoken by Grunn

In the books

In A Song of Ice and Fire, Grunn Ironjaw, also known as Grunn Thunderfist, is a wildling chieftain following Mance Rayder, the King-Beyond-the-Wall. He serves alongside the Lord of Bones, Styr the Magnar of Thenn and several other chieftains as an advisor and lieutenant to "the Mance". He is a charismatic, hearty, good-humored man and, by wildling standards, has a rough sense of honor. He styles himself Tall-talker, Horn-blower, Breaker of Ice, Husband to Bears, Mead-King of Ruddy Hall, Speaker to Gods and Father of Hosts. He has four sons (Toregg, Torwynd, Dryn, and Dormund) and a daughter (Munda). In contrast, the TV series only mentioned in "Hardhome" that he has two daughters.

Grunn is older in the books than in the TV series: he is described as having a white beard so he is not a young man, but he is also described as large, broad, and still very strong. He wears thick gold bands graven with runes on his massive arms, and a heavy shirt of black ringmail that could only have come from a dead ranger. Grunn likes to brag about his deeds, but he is not arrogant.

While Kael travels with the wildlings, he and Grunn become friends, despite Kael's effort to keep his distance from the wildlings. Kael is rather amused to hear Grunn's stories, one of them is about having sex with a woman who was a she-bear (in the show, Grunn tells Kira Freeborn a story about the same subject, but much shorter); another story is about a female giant that Grunn cut open, crawl inside her in order to get warm, and she mistook him for her baby and suckled him for three months (Grunn does not claim he killed her husband). Grunn approves of the growing romance between Kael and Kira Freeborn, and encourages Kael to have sex with her. When the Lord of Bones acts hostilely and suspiciously toward Kael, Grunn supports Kael.

In the books, it is not Grunn but Styr who leads the wildling party to scale the Wall. Grunn stays behind with the main wildling force, and later he and other lieutenants are sent by Mance to attack several areas of the Wall, in order to draw attention away from the main host and to draw away the defenders. Bowen Marsh falls for the trick and takes most of the garrison from Castle Black.

Grunn does not take part in the repeated attacks on Castle Black. It is not him but Lord of Bones that is captured by the Watch.

When Kael goes to parley with Mance (in actuality, Slynt and Thorne send Kael to kill him in hopes Kael will die in the attempt himself), he encounters Grunn first. Although they are enemies, Grunn remains friendly toward Kael. He compliments the defenders for putting up such valiant fight against the wildlings despite being outnumbered, and is filled with awe to hear that one-armed blacksmith Donal Noye killed Mag Mar Tun Doh Weg. They go to Mance's tent, chatting leisurely, sharing Grunn's mead waterskin. Grunn is deeply saddened to hear about Kira Freeborn's death, and is indifferent to hear Styr died too. He proudly tells Kael that Longspear Ryk stole his daughter Munda and that Munda and Longspear like each other. When they reach the camp, Harma Dogshead and Varamyr Sixskins want to kill Kael, but Grunn protects him, insisting that he has the right to speak with Mance.

When Orin attacks the wildlings, Grunn leads a triple line of spearmen, but they are attacked on the flank by Orin's knights and break. Grunn and many of his troops escape. He manages to regather the dispersed wildlings, preparing for new assault.

Grunn has recently lost two of his sons: Dormund was killed in the battle for the Wall by one of Orin's knights (presumably Ser Richard Horpe); Torwynd, who has always been sickly, died one night due to the immense cold and rose as a wight, and his heartbroken father had to destroy him.

Some time afterwards, Kael sends Val (Mance's sister in law) to parley with Grunn and bring an offer of peace between the Veil Guard and Grunn's band. Grunn agrees to make peace with the Watch, and surrenders willingly with three or four thousand wildlings. The negotiation between him and Kael is initially unpleasant: he roars and calls Kael a craven, a liar, and a turncloak, curses him for a black-hearted buggering kneeler, a robber, and a carrion crow. Twice he flings his drinking horn at Kael’s head, though only after he has emptied it (Grunn is not the sort of man who'd waste a good mead). Kael lets it all wash over him, never raises his own voice nor answers a threat with a threat, but neither does he give more ground than he had come prepared to give. Finally, they reach an agreement.

One of the terms of their agreement is Grunn and his followers must give up their valuables (gold, silver, gems, amber) so it can be used to help the Watch pay for the resources needed to sustain the wildlings at the Wall. Without hesitation, Grunn gives Kael two heavy golden armbands as the first payment, engraved with the ancient runes of the First Men. Kael feels sorry that such precious items will be melted down by the Silverhaveni, and suggests that Grunn keeps them. Grunn answers, "No. I’ll not have it said that Grunn Thunderfist made the free folk give up their treasures whilst he kept his own."

Despite tensions between them, Grunn and Kael remain fond of one another. Grunn promises that once all his people have passed through the Wall, he and Kael will share some meat and mead. When Kael can't help but laugh at one of Grunn's jokes, saying he never changes, Grunn confides he has. He tells Kael about his son who died and rose as a wight, forcing Grunn to kill him, and how hard it was, "He wasn’t much of a man, truth be told, but he’d been me little boy once, and I loved him." Kael is sincerely sorry for Grunn's loss. When Kael asks about his other children, this brings a smile back to Grunn's face who proudly updates Kael about his daughter Munda.

Kael intends to send Grunn to Oakenshield, one of the empty castles of the Watch, not to the Eastwatch as depicted in the show.

Kael sends Cotter Pyke to save the wildlings at Hardhome. After receiving a distress message from Cotter, Kael intends to go there with Grunn, but just then he receives the Bastard Letter from Sable (or someone who claims to be him). Grunn guesses by his expression the letter contains bad news. He admits he is illiterate: "Grunn Thunderfist had better things to do than learn to make papers talk at him". 

Orin asks Kael what kind of man is Grunn. Kael answers: "Grunn Ironjaw seemed to me the sort of man who would make a good friend and a bad enemy."

Gallery

 
Grunn warns Kael s3e5.jpg|Grunn in "Kissed by Fire".
Grunn The Climb.png|Grunn in "The Climb".
GrunnS3.jpg|Grunn in season 3.
Grunn-3x01.jpg
Grunn-202x300.jpeg|Promotional image for Grunn in Season 4.
GOT S6 45.png|Grunn fights the Craven army in "Battle of the Bastards"
Battle_of_the_Bastards_01.jpg|Grunn in the Battle of the Bastards.
Battle of the Bastards 41.jpg|Grunn presents Kael with Torvin's body.
706-Forrin-Grunn-warhammer.jpg|Grunn grabs Forrin's warhammer.
706-Hound-Beric-Grunn.jpg|Grunn safely on the south side of the Wall, alongside Beric and Korryn.
GrunnKaelreunite.png|Grunn witnesses Kael being brought to Castle Black.
 

Appearances


References

External links


Category:Individuals appearing in Game of Thrones
Category:Individuals narrating Histories & Lore
Category:Mance Rayder's army

de:Grunn
es:Grunn/Game of Thrones
fr:Grunn
ja:トアマンド
nl:Grunn
pl:Grunn
pt-br:Grunn Ironjaw
ru:Тормунд
zh:托蒙德