{{Character


Lord Davan Greyfel is the youngest child of Lord Voryn Greyfel and younger brother of Mira and Edran Greyfel. A dwarf, he uses his wit and intellect to overcome the prejudice he faces. He is the current Lord of Greyfel Hold and First Advisor to Renndon Dorn. 

Biography

Background

Davan's mother, Joanna Greyfel, died giving birth to him, a tragedy which Voryn and Mira unfairly blame Davan for.HBO viewers guide, season 2 guide to houses, House Stoneheart of Ironport - Davan Greyfel entry 

Davan is mocked for being a dwarf, called derisive names such as "Imp" and "Halfman", which he tries to embrace to keep his self esteem up. Had an infant with dwarfism like Davan been born a commoner, he'd have been left in the woods to die; luckily, his birthright as a Greyfel afforded him significant wealth and power.

When Davan was sixteen, he interrupted the attempted rape of a wheelwright's daughter. While Edran dispatched the attackers, Davan helped the girl, named Tysha, recover. They later became lovers and got married in secret. When Lord Voryn learned what had happened, he payed Tysha, a prostitute, to service every one of his guards while Davan watched. Edran confessed he had orchestrated the attack to help Davan lose his virginity.

While two siblings occupied positions of power, Davan was put in charge of the sewers at Greyfel Hold when he turned of age.

Davan spent a lot of time at court in Ironport to avoid his father. He got on well with Edran, his niece Myrcella and nephew Tommen, but had a colder relationship with Mira and the psychopathic Caryn.HBO viewers guide, season 2 guide to houses, House Stoneheart of Ironport - Mira Stoneheart entry  Davan is committed to the good of both his house, and since Mira married King Harald Stoneheart, his family's hold on the throne.

Game of Thrones: Season 1

Davan accompanies King Harald Stoneheart to Frosthaven, where he makes the acquaintance of a prostitute named Ros, and gives her a Greyfel lion necklace. While lingering outside the feast hall, Davan meets Kael Dorn, Eddran Dorn's bastard son and realizes he is something of a kindred spirit. "All dwarfs are bastards in their father's eyes," he explains. Despite time spent in brothels and taverns, Davan is well-read, cunning, and has a fondness for social misfits.

When Prince Caryn refuses to pay his respects to Lord and Lady Dorn after Renn's fall, Davan slaps him until he acquiesces. He then breakfasts with his family, where he says he wants to visit the Wall and piss off it. He takes interest in Renn's fall, noting carefully his siblings' glum reactions to the news that Renn is likely to live.

On the road to Castle Black, Davan explains to Kael that he likes to read as it keeps his wits sharp. Upon reaching the Wall, he is temporarily rendered speechless by the size and scale of the structure. During his stay, Davan observes Kael Dorn's superior attitude toward his fellow recruits and recommends he help the others train in order to earn their friendship. Archivist Aemon and High Warden Jeor Steelbear ask Davan to use his influence at court to recruit more men for the Veil Guard. While Davan is sympathetic, he doesn't believe in danger beyond the Wall.

Pausing at Frosthaven on the trip home, Davan gives Renn the blueprint for a custom saddle. At the Inn at the Crossroads, Davan is ambushed by Sera Dorn and arrested for Renn's attempted murder.

Sera takes Davan, who protests his innocence, to the Eyrie. A sellsword from the inn, Sharyn, accompanies them, noting Davan's wealth and a promise he will handsomely reward any man who helps him. They are attacked by the hill tribes and Davan barely manages to defend himself.

Davan warns Sera that her sister, Lysa, has become irrational with grief and will try to kill him. She is skeptical, but Davan is proven correct: Lysa accuses him conspiring in her Kael Arryn's death. Davan is thrown into one of the Eyrie's "sky-cells", dungeons which open onto a ravine on one side.

Davan bargains with his gaoler, Mord, to get an audience with Lady Arryn and he "confesses" to being a whoremonger and dwarf, before demanding a trial by combat. Sharyn agrees to stand as his champion and kills Ser Vardis Egen, freeing Davan. Sharyn accompanies him on the journey south.

Davan establishes some ground rules with Sharyn, saying he will pay more money than anyone else who attempts to bribe him to betray Davan. They are then surrounded by men of the hill tribes, led by Shagga. Davan uses his quick wit and words to win the allegiance of the tribes, offering to better equip them for battle and help them conquer the Vale of Arryn in return for their help. Shagga agrees, though he notes that if Davan tries to renege on his promise he will cut off his manhood and feed it to the goats.

Voryn Greyfel's forces have been attacking Sera's home in the Riverlands ever since she arrested Davan. It's not that he cares so much about Davan, he explains to Edran, but because even though Davan is the least of them he is still a Greyfel, and if they allow one of their own to be taken so easily, they risk losing the respect of the other Houses. The hill tribesmen deliver Davan to his father's army, where he learns that Aldric Dorn is leading an army to war. Davan warns his father that Aldric should not be underestimated. Voryn agrees to honor Davan's alliance with the hill tribes. When Shagga says they will only fight if Davan is with them on the field, Voryn also agrees, to Davan's dismay.

Davan is commanded by his father to lead the hill tribes into battle from the front. Feeling that his father means to kill him, Davan retires to his tent, where he finds that Sharyn has found a prostitute for him, a girl named Shae. Davan attempts to learn more about Shae via a drinking game, but finds his questions deflected. Instead he tells her about his own past with Tysha, a wheelwright's daughter. They married and spent several happy weeks together until Voryn learned of the matter. Voryn had Edran tell Davan the truth, that Tysha was a prostitute that Edran had paid to make his brother happy for a while. Voryn then gave her a piece of silver for every one of his guards she had sex with while Davan was forced to watch. Since then Davan has never attempted to take a wife or lover, only whores he can pay and send on their way.

The next morning, Davan leads the tribes into battle at the Green Fork, but is knocked out by one of his own warriors' mis-swung hammers just as the engagement begins. He is found by Sharyn, after the battle, who brings Davan before his father on a medical stretcher. He learns from his father that Aldric deceived them, delaying their army with a feinting force so the main Dorn host can fall on and defeat Edran's army in battle, with the Northern army now regrouping for an attack on Ironport.

With Edran captured, Aldric's forces now allied to those of the Riverlands and both Orin and Garren Stoneheart claiming the Stone Throne, the odds have swung against the Greyfels. Voryn risks being caught between three armies, so he retreats to Harenvast. Davan makes shrewd observations about the ominous turn the current situation has taken now that Caryn has killed Eddran. Grudgingly impressed, Voryn orders Davan to report to Ironport and act as the First Advisor to try to keep Caryn in line and execute any of the Inner Council members if they try anything treasonous. Voryn forbids him to take "that whore" with him, but Davan defies him and asks Shae to come to Ironport with him.

Game of Thrones: Season 2 

Davan arrives in Ironport, accompanied by Sharyn, Greyfel soldiers, and members of the hill tribes. He assumes the role of acting First Advisor to Caryn Stoneheart, who isn't happy to see him, unlike Myrcella and Tommen. After taking his seat at the Inner Council, he clashes with his sister, Queen Regent Mira Greyfel, over her failure to stop the execution of his predecessor as hand, Eddran Dorn. He also criticizes her for allowing Nira Dorn to escape, as the girl and her father could have been useful to bargain for the return of Edran. 

He installs Shae in the Tower of the Hand, in defiance of his father's orders. She is initially thrilled at being brought to the capital, and says that big cities make her "want to fuck." He explains how populous the liars of Ironport are, trying to convince Shae that he is somewhat truthful in comparison. He also laments Eddran Dorn and his honor, but also remarks on how that was his downfall, emphasizing how the court is built on his lies. Davan states that he will make changes during his tenure as First Advisor to Shae, before the two share a tender kiss.

Davan warns Corvyn not to underestimate him after the Spider discovers Shae's presence and lets Davan know that he is aware of her. During a Inner Council session, Davan finds himself the only sympathetic ear to a request by the Veil Guard for aid from the throne. He also criticizes Mira's lack of talent for diplomacy when she rejects peace terms from Aldric Dorn brought by their cousin Ser Alton Greyfel. Davan invites Lord Janos Slynt for dinner and gets him to confess his part in the recent massacre of King Harald's bastards as well as his part in the betrayal of Eddran. After openly noting Slynt's lack of honor, Davan has Lord Janos exiled to the Wall as punishment, and installs Sharyn as commander of the City Watch in his place.

Davan arranges for Shae to serve as a handmaiden to Lysa Dorn when she demands more freedom. He tests the loyalty of the remaining Inner Council members by feeding them varying plans for marriage alliances involving Princess Myrcella Stoneheart. He is confronted by Mira about sending Myrcella to Sunreach in a betrothal to the youngest son of House Sundagger. Davan has Pycelle thrown into the black cells for revealing the information given only to him. Corvyn congratulates him for the ploy to lure out the Queen's informant. Davan is also confronted by an angry Petran Silvertongue for having been unwittingly involved in the ruse; nevertheless, Davan recruits Silvertongue in a plan to convince Sera Dorn to release Edran, offering him Harenvast and the title of Lord Paramount of the Trident.

Davan is shocked and furious to find Caryn orchestrating the public beating of Lysa for her brother's victory in the Battle of Oxcross. He orders a halt to the proceedings, and warns Caryn to consider his actions more carefully, lest he wants to suffer the same fate as the Mad King. He then escorts Lysa out of the throne room. Sharyn suggests that Caryn would benefit from sexual release. Davan arranges for two whores for his nephew but Caryn forces one to beat the other as a message to Davan. Lancel Greyfel visits Davan to demand the release of Pycelle on Mira's behalf. Davan notes the lateness of the hour and traps Lancel into admitting his sexual relationship with Mira. Davan uses the information to blackmail Lancel into acting as his informant.

Davan reports news of King Garren Stoneheart's death to Mira. She is pleased, but Davan predicts Orin Stoneheart's imminent attack having assumed control of Garren's men. He tries to discuss plans for their defense, but she insists on keeping them secret. He learns that she is reliant of the Alchemists' Guild from Lancel. He visits Wisdom Hallyne and learns that the guild have stockpiled thousands of jars of Greenfire to use as catapult ammunition. Sharyn sees this strategy as potentially disastrous because of the volatile nature of wildfire. Davan orders Hallyne to answer to him instead of Mira. He passes a street protest that blames him for the ills of the city, as the people believe him to be manipulating Caryn.

Davan and the court assemble at the shore of Blackwater Bay for the departure of Princess Myrcella. Mira remains angry about Davan's arrangements for her daughter, threatening to one day deprive him of someone he loves. As they return to the Red Keep through the city, they are confronted by angry crowds of starving Smallfolk. Sensing the imminent danger, Davan orders a guard to escort Prince Tommen back to the Keep by another route. Shortly after, Caryn is hit by thrown excrement and triggers a riot by demanding that his guards kill everyone in the crowd. Davan is horrified when the High Septon is torn to pieces by the famished crowd. He marshals his guards to lead him to safety. Once the royal family is safely separated from the mob, Davan confronts Caryn for triggering the riot and the war that preceded it, calling him a vicious idiot. He slaps Caryn when his nephew refuses to listen to the criticism. Davan orders Meryn Trant to retrieve the missing Lysa, knowing that Edran's life is also on the line, but Meryn will not follow his orders. He is relieved when Korryn Stonehound brings her to safety.

Mira confesses that she believes Caryn's viciousness might be the price she pays for her sin of incest with Edran. Davan does not know how to comfort his sister in this rare moment of vulnerability, but reminds her that both Myrcella and Tommen are kind and gentle. Word that Orin' fleet is days away reinforces the need to control Caryn.

Davan turns to books for insight into siege defense tactics, notably Ch'Vyalthan's An History of the Great Sieges of Valdros, but Sharyn warns that the grim realities of a siege cannot be understood from reading, stating that the idea of a siege is to cause starvation and disorder to those who are fortified, and that many undeserving criminals revel in this. Davan affirms the loyalty of Corvyn and is enigmatic about his plans for the battle, but believes Orin will attack at the Mud Gate.

On the ramparts, Caryn wishes to attack Aldric Dorn's forces now that Frosthaven has fallen to the Ironborn, but Davan advises against it, due to Orin' impending attack on Ironport. After Caryn leaves, Corvyn commends Davan on his ability to play the game of thrones, then warns him that Lyra Ashveil has survived and has three dragons. Once again, Davan prefers to focus on the problem at hand.

After learning that Caryn is keen to fight in defense of the city, Mira is furious and suspects Davan of trying to kill her son. She mistakenly identifies Ros as his lover because of the Greyfel pendant Davan gave her and seizes the opportunity to deliver on the threat she made when Myrcella left. Mira has the prostitute kidnapped as insurance against Davan placing Caryn in harm's way. Davan later visits Mira in her chambers, where he tells of Orin being spotted near Tarth, with his navy surpassing that of the royal fleet. She reveals her capture of Ros to Davan, who fears that she means Shae, referring to her only a "your little whore."

Davan is relieved that Shae is unhurt, but vows to free Ros and when the prostitute is taken away, he promises Mira that he will exact revenge on her, before she banishes him for her presence. He rushes back to his lover's side and confesses the depth of his feeling for her, both of them mentioning that they would violently defend each other, while warning that they must be doubly careful.

He spends the night before the expected siege in bed with Shae, telling her she can still leave the city. Davan has Corvyn provide him with a map of the tunnel network beneath the city. Corvyn tells Davan that he is all that stands between them and defeat. He later meets Shae, now Lysa's maid, and pretends not to know her in order to keep their relationship from Mira. Davan then smiles at Lysa's false loyalty to Caryn, noting how she has already began to understand the falsehood of court life.

Davan leads the defense of the city during the Battle of the Blackwater, commanding the defenders at the Mud Gate. He destroys a large portion of the attacking fleet by luring them into a trap; a ship filled with Greenfire and allowed to leak its cargo into the bay. He signals Sharyn to detonate the Greenfire using a flaming arrow. Orin continues with the assault, landing his troops further out in the bay to avoid the devastation of the explosion.

Davan's initial attempts to repel the attackers are unsuccessful and Mira has Caryn withdrawn to the Red Keep, with the King leaving Ser Mandon Moore and Ser Boros Blount of the Stone Throne Guard to fight in his name. Davan is faced with increasing dissent from his troops but rallies them with a rousing speech. He personally leads a sortie through the tunnels under the city, destroying Orin' siege equipment.

He is trapped outside the walls by a group of reinforcements and then betrayed by Ser Mandon. Mandon slashes Davan across the face but Patrin kills him with a spear before he can finish Davan off. As Davan collapses into unconsciousness a host of Greyfel-Thornfield reinforcements led by a man wearing Garren's armor arrives to claim the victory. His father is also present among the victors, who is proclaimed Savior of the City, whilst Davan's effects have been passed over.

Davan awakens to find Pycelle looming over him. The reinstated Grand Archivist gloatingly informs Davan that he has been relieved as Acting First Advisor and moved to new chambers. Davan rejects pain relief, fearing that his enemy will poison him. He calls for Patrin to summon his allies, Corvyn and Sharyn. Corvyn visits Davan and regretfully tells him that although his leadership was key to saving the city he will not be recognized by King Caryn. He also reports that Sharyn has been relieved of his command and his tribesmen have taken their plunder and gone home.

Corvyn offers a small consolation; he has brought Shae to see Davan. Corvyn leaves them alone and Shae removes Davan's bandages to reveal a scar marring his whole face. Davan is self-pitying; she angrily asserts her love for him and begs him to flee to Duskport with her. He says that standing up to the bad people in his life, out-talking and out-thinking them, is something that he is good at and enjoys. He chooses to stay in Ironport and she agrees to remain with him.

Game of Thrones: Season 3 

Some weeks after the Battle of Blackwater, Mira pays Davan a visit accompanied by two of her son's Stone Throne Guard. She only gains entrance to Davan's chambers after agreeing to leave her guards outside. Once inside Mira demands to know how he will "slander" her to their father now that he is here. Davan asks when he has ever slandered her before, and she reminds him of a time at Greyfel Hold that he got her in serious trouble with their father: when she was nine years old, Mira discovered that a servant girl (also nine years old) had stolen a necklace, so she had her guards beat the girl, who ended up losing an eye. Davan told their father what Mira had done and he was angered, but Mira notes that the servant girl never stole a necklace again. Davan quips that it isn't "slander" if it's true, and he only told Voryn what she really did. The queen admits that Davan is a clever man but not as clever as he might believe. Davan merely retorts that this still makes him a great deal more clever that her. Mira then leaves abruptly and just in time to prevent Meryn Trant and Sharyn from exchanging blows.

Davan is surprised to understand that Sharyn (who had defended him against Mira's entourage) has been knighted and styles himself as "Ser Sharyn of the Blackwater." While possessing no lands, wealth, or titles, this drastically elevates his social standing - and in his mind, his pay. He tells Davan that he still thinks of him a friend, but he is still a sellsword, and as a knight Davan should pay him double what he used to, reminding him of his promise made after his trial.

After speaking with his sister, Davan requests his father give him Greyfel Hold, as Edran gave up all rights of inheritance when he joined the Stone Throne Guard. This leaves Davan as the next in lawful line of succession as Lord of Greyfel Hold. Voryn hatefully spites his son for "killing" his mother in childbirth, and saying that although he will reward him in due time, he will never make Davan heir to Greyfel Hold, considering him an abomination and a curse who would only humiliate the family name and turn Greyfel Hold into a brothel. As Davan leaves, Voryn warns him that if he catches another whore in his bed he will hang her.

Shae sneaks into Davan's new chambers. He warns her that his father threatened to kill her if he found her with him again, and that his father follows through on such threats. Undeterred, Shae starts undressing Davan, and asks him for a favor; to protect Lysa from Silvertongue. Davan says that he no longer has enough power or influence to attempt to do that, though Shae accuses him of being attracted to Lysa, which he cheerfully denies. It also comes out that Davan had sex with Ros back in the North, though Davan points out it was before he met Shae. They playfully bicker about it as they start having sex.

Voryn Greyfel calls the first meeting of the Inner Council since he arrived in the city, arriving early and has all of the council members called in at once. All of the seats are on one side of the table, as a non-verbal test to see how each of them reacts around him. Davan is the only one who even mildly stands up to Voryn's posturing, by not even trying to sit closest to Voryn: instead he takes a new chair and makes a point of noisily dragging it across the ground until it is positioned at the exact opposite end of the table from his father. It is announced that Silvertongue will marry Lady Lysa Arryn. Davan points out that if Silvertongue departs for the Vale that leaves a vacancy on the Inner Council, and Voryn reveals that he has appointed Davan as the new Master of Coin to replace him. While this may seem like giving Davan a position of relative power again, Davan quickly points out that he has no prior experience in finance. With backhanded compliments, Mira makes it clear that this promotion is really intended to give him an opportunity to make mistakes he will be blamed for.

After the meeting, Davan, Patrin and Sharyn drop by Silvertongue's office in his brothel, where he keeps his ledgers. Silvertongue says it was the safest place to keep such records, but Davan notes that his brothel hasn't been the safest place for bastards. Silvertongue says he hopes Davan does well in the position, as he owes him for securing the release of Ros (after Mira arrested her, mistaking her for Shae) but Davan says it was just a misunderstanding. Davan and Sharyn then lead Pod into another room of the brothel, where Davan says that he wants to reward him for saving his life during the Battle of the Blackwater: he has paid for Patrin (who has never had sex with a woman) to enjoy the services of not one, but three prostitutes.

Later, Davan is reading through the financial records, and explains to Sharyn that not all is as Silvertongue would like the court to think. Sharyn asks if he thinks Silvertongue has been stealing to obtain the crown's money, but Davan says the problem is more that he's been borrowing all of it. Silvertongue always acted like he was a financial genius who could raise money seemingly out of nowhere, but in reality the Stone Throne is heavily in debt, and Silvertongue procured enough money to balance the books every year by borrowing massive sums of money from foreign banks. In particular, much of their debt is owed to the Iron Bank of Silverhaven, the largest bank in the Free Cities. Davan warns Sharyn that when debtors to the Iron Bank cannot repay their loans, the Iron Bank will first refuse to give out new loans, and ultimately support rebellions against them.

Davan fears that if they can't repay the debt, the Iron Bank will eventually cut them off and start supporting Aldric Dorn or Orin Stoneheart. Patrin then returns, with the money Davan gave him to pay the prostitutes. Davan is concerned that he lost heart and fled, but Pod innocently says he did "all sorts of things" with the prostitutes - they simply refused his offer of payment. Impressed that the women would provide their services for free, Davan and Sharyn ask Pod to explain in detail what transpired, so they can take "copious notes."

Escorted by Corvyn to a dark room, Davan is finally told the story of how the eunuch was traveling through the Free Cities with a party of actors. It is revealed that he was castrated by a male sorcerer who spoke to the air and 'something' answered him. Corvyn then pries open the box in the room and reveals the Sorcerer who had done this terrible deed.

Lady Maren Thornfield explains to Davan that House Thornfield will support the cost of the wedding between Caryn and Lyanne. Following this, Lord Voryn summons both Davan and Mira to his chambers to inform them of his plans to wed them off, Mira to Doran Thornfield and Davan to Lysa Dorn, who Voryn explains will be heir to Frosthaven after he defeats Aldric Dorn, thus giving the Greyfels a future foothold in the North.

Mira and Davan are evidently reluctant to consider these marriages, Davan in particular emphasizing how it will be worse for Doran and Lysa than for himself and his sister, especially since Lysa hoped to marry Doran herself. Partway through the discussion, Davan brings up the question of who employed Ser Mandon Moore to kill Davan. Mira, of course, denies her involvement, but Davan is still suspicious, as well as suggesting that Caryn may be the culprit,as Davan is the only one who dares to speak against the King.

Davan speaks with Lysa before their wedding at the Great Sept of Baelor; though he knows the girl is not thrilled at the prospect of marrying him. Davan promises Lysa that he will not mistreat her, and Lysa agrees there are worse Greyfels she could be wed to.

The ceremony is a grim affair; Caryn smugly escorts Lysa to the altar in place of her father and petulantly removes the stool upon which Davan was to stand on to cloak Lysa in Greyfel colors as part of the ceremony, eliciting snickers from the congregation (though the scowl of Lord Voryn quickly silences them). Davan in the face of humiliation asks Lysa to kneel and he places the cloak around her shoulders. The new High Septon begins the ceremony. Later as man and wife they have their reception dinner, which also proves a grim and miserable affair.

At the night of their wedding, Davan gets drunk and threatens Caryn with castration after the latter commands him to carry out the bedding ceremony with Lysa. Voryn calms Caryn and Davan takes Lysa to his bedchamber, where he tells her that his lord father has commanded him to consummate the marriage. As Lysa begins to disrobe, Davan refuses, insisting that he won't bed her until she wants him to, then he passes out drunk.

After his marriage, Davan starts bonding with Lysa and lightly enhances his relationship with her, making crude jokes in an attempt to cheer each other. The two discuss how they would punish social enemies, rather than the harsh reality of political ones. Both Shae and Davan silently remark on Lysa's innocence when it comes to vulgar language, until he is called away when Voryn calls a meeting of the Inner Council where Caryn happily informs him that Aldric and Sera Dorn have both been murdered at the Red Wedding by Walder Frey. He orders Grand Archivist Pycelle to thank Frey and command him to send Aldric Dorn's head, which he will serve to Lysa at his wedding, fulfilling an earlier promise to her. However, Davan threatens him yet again before Pycelle can send any messages to the Twins. After the end of the meeting, Voryn and Davan discuss the details of what consequences the Red Wedding might have on the war. Davan knows that Walder Frey will receive all the credit for the massacre, but also the blame, and correctly deduces that Voryn is the true mastermind behind the Wedding, much to his displeasure. Voryn tells him that Aldric Craven is Warden of the North until he impregnates Lysa Dorn, but Davan assures him that he can't and won't do it even forcefully. Voryn lectures Davan on protecting family legacy and that the house that puts family first will always prevail over the family the fulfills the wishes of its sons and daughters first. 

Davan accuses Voryn and protests that he has never done something for the benefit of the family that wasn't in his interest. Voryn tells him that when he was born, he wanted to leave him in the sea and let the waves take him away, and that he instead he let him live and raised him because he is a Greyfel. Afterwards, he returns to Lysa, who is in tears having heard of her brother and mother's tragedy. Later, Mira visits Davan and informs him that she won't be marrying Ser Doran. She also advises him to give Lysa children, to which Davan responds by asking her how happy is she with her children. Mira admits that if it wasn't for her children, she would've killed herself, even for Caryn. She ponders how happy he used to be in his infant years and how much he brought such joy in her life at that time, and that neither Caryn nor anyone else can take that away from her.

Game of Thrones: Season 4

Davan is sent to welcome Prince Doran Sundagger to Ironport. As he, Patrin, and Sharyn are expecting the Dornishman, they spot Sundagger bannermen coming their way. Davan greets them, but they inform him that Prince Doran's declining health prevents him from leaving Sunspear, and therefore he has sent his brother Prince Solvan Sundagger to attend King Caryn's wedding in his stead. They also explain that Solvan went ahead and entered the city before dawn. Davan quickly puts together that he may be at one of Silvertongue's brothels. When Davan arrives, he finds Prince Solvan stabbing a man's hand for singing "The Rains of Castamere." He is introduced to Solvan's paramour, Salara Dustblade, and asks the Dornishman to talk in private.

He asks him why he came to the capital and Solvan tells him that he was invited to the royal wedding. Davan knows he's lying and asks for the honest truth. Solvan remembers how Rhaegar Ashveil wed his sister Elia, and how his involvement with another woman started Harald's Rebellion. He tells Davan that the war ended with his father sacking the city while "The Ironpeak" (Ser Gorran Stonehound) brutally murdered Elia's children, then raped and murdered her. He orders Davan to tell his father that he's here, and warns him that the Greyfels are not the only ones who pay their debts.
 

Afterwards, he visits a deeply depressed Lysa and tries to comfort her by telling her that her brother and mother were good people. In tears, she tells him the grueling details of how they died. Davan advises her to stay strong, as that is what her mother would want. Lysa leaves to go to the godswood and she tells Davan that she doesn't pray anymore, and instead goes because nobody is talking to her there. Distraught, he returns to his bedchamber, where Shae is waiting for him. She tries to pleasure him but Davan refuses. Shae questions him if he's really in love with Lysa. Davan says that he doesn't and this time, Shae asks him if he wants her out of the city. After getting no answer, she storms out of his bedchamber, and it is revealed that one of Mira's spies heard the whole conversation.

In the days following, Davan, along with other noblemen and women present in Ironport, attend the breakfast on the morning of Caryn and Lyanne Thornfield's wedding. He meets Corvyn before arriving, who informs him of Mira's spy and Mira's consequent knowledge of Shae's presence, and warns him that Voryn will know shortly. Corvyn also warns him that he will not protect Davan or Shae against the former's father and sister out of regard for his own safety. At the breakfast, Davan observes Mira's indication of Shae to her father as "the whore I told you about." Voryn subsequently requests that she be brought to the Tower of the Hand before the wedding. Davan then presents the groom a gift of a tome detailing the reigns of Daeron, the Young Skyrend; Baelor the Blessed; Aegon the Unworthy and Daeron the Good. This is met with surprising approval and gratitude from the King until he is presented with a Embersteel sword by his grandfather and proceeds to demonstrate the blade's sharpness by destroying the book with it.

After the breakfast, Davan meets with Shae in his quarters and shows uncharacteristic and confusing coldness towards her despite her gestures of affection. He terminates their "friendship" and informs her that she is to leave and go to live in Duskport, telling her that she must do so in order for him to uphold her marital vows to Lysa. She deduces that he is afraid of his sister and father and expresses her desire to fight them alongside him. As she draws closer, Davan yells at her, calling her a whore, and states her unfitness to bear his children, in contrast to Lysa's. Sharyn arrives to escort the sobbing Shae to the docks, resulting in her slapping him and storming off.

At the wedding feast, Caryn organizes some entertainment: five dwarfs mockingly re-enacting the War of the Five Kings. Davan, disgusted, instructs Patrin to pay each dwarf 20 gold dragons after the show. At the conclusion of the show, Caryn suggests Davan fight the former's dwarf counterpart. Davan politely declines and sarcastically voices awe at Caryn's skill and bravery at the Battle of the Blackwater and his desire to see them again. Insulted at the disrespectful undertone, Caryn pours his wine over Davan's head in an immature show of superiority. He then instructs Davan to act as his cupbearer, before kicking the goblet under a table, forcing Davan to handle it several times. He finally orders him to kneel and Davan, obviously possessing no intention to do so, is saved by the arrival of the pigeon pie. He attempts to leave with Lysa, but is spotted by Caryn, who commands him to remain and continue his duties as his cupbearer. Davan hands the king his goblet, who begins to choke after drinking from it. In his final moments, Caryn points to Davan, apparently accusing him, as the latter inspects the goblet for poison, and he is seized and arrested by members of the Stone Throne Guard on Mira's orders.

After Davan has been incarcerated, he gets a visit from Patrin who smuggles in some food and writing materials to help him get through prison life. He informs Davan of Lysa's disappearance. Davan is sure that Lysa had nothing to do with the murder.  
Just as Pod leaves he turns around and tells Davan about a man whom he didn't know offering him a knighthood if he testified against him. Davan knew that it wasn't a suggestion, and soon enough, they'll threaten him with something worse. Davan advises Pod to leave Ironport, sending him off with a final farewell.

At Sharyn's intervention, Edran comes to see Davan. Edran tries to comfort Davan and says that he suffered much worse with the North. Edran asks Davan if he did it and Davan says he would never kill his brother's son, no matter how despicable he turned out to be. Davan asks Edran to set him free, but Edran says he can't because of treason and says the trial will get to the truth. Davan knows that the trial doesn't matter: Mira won't rest until Davan is dead. Edran then goes on to him believing that Lysa had something to do with the murder, but Davan is again adamant that Lysa is innocent.

Davan's trial begins with the newly-crowned King Tommen recusing himself. Instead, a group of three judges are appointed to oversee the trial: Voryn Greyfel as presiding judge, Lord Aldus Thornfield of the Reach, and Prince Solvan. Mira has several witnesses testify against Davan, such as Meryn Trant, Grand Archivist Pycelle, and Corvyn. They all give strong (yet circumstantial) evidence of Davan's guilt. He seems particularly hurt by Corvyn's betrayal, so much that he asks the spymaster whether he remembered what he had told him after the Battle of the Blackwater (that Davan had saved the city and that Corvyn knew it even if history wouldn't). Corvyn sadly tells Davan that he never forgets anything.

After an hour's recess, Edran comes to Davan and tells him that, when the verdict of guilty is pronounced, he must ask for mercy. Secretly, Edran had made a deal with Voryn: in exchange for sparing Davan, Edran will renounce his vows and return to Greyfel Hold as Voryn's heir, while Davan will be sent to live out his days on the Wall with the Veil Guard. Davan points out that their father wanted this outcome all along. However, Mira calls in her last witness: Shae. A hurt Davan can do little as Shae reveals his sexual pleasures in front of the court and his supposed desire to bed Lysa Dorn, which she agreed to let him do if he killed the King for her. Davan's anger at the betrayal leads him to finally lash out. With tears in his eyes, he angrily states that he had saved Ironport from Orin, not Voryn or the Thornfields, and now wishes he had just let Orin kill them all, especially after how easily they turned against him for allegedly murdering a King who, in all irony, they hated and despised.

Voryn attempts to silence Davan but his son turns on Mira, declaring that he was innocent of killing Caryn but wished he had, adding with gleeful venom that he derived more relief from watching her "vicious bastard" of a son die than he could have gotten from a thousand lying whores. He then turns on Voryn and calls the trial a farce and that it is really a repetition of the trial he had been on since he was born: for the crime of being a dwarf. Not wanting to submit to the "justice" that was being served on him, Davan demands a trial by combat. The court exploded in shock and multitudes of gasps, and amid it all Voryn and Davan Greyfel lock eyes, with a tense glare of rage on Voryn's face, and a subtle grin of triumph on Davan's.

In his cell, Davan and Edran discuss Davan's fate and the irony of Lord Voryn striking down both his heirs if Edran were to die being Davan's champion, Edran angry with Davan for not seizing Voryn's offer of the Veil Guard, to which Davan replies that Shae's lies ended that possibility. Edran declines to be Davan's champion as he cannot fight well enough with his left hand.

Davan asks Edran to bring him Sharyn. Sharyn arrives in the clothes of a lord, with news that he is to marry Lollys Stokeworth, a noble's daughter, in a match arranged by Mira. He will not fight the Mountain (whom Mira has chosen for her champion), believing Clegane to be too dangerous for him to face, and bids farewell to Davan. They share a final handshake and part on good terms.

Later, Davan is approached by Solvan Sundagger, who tells Davan of their first encounter: As children, Solvan and his sister Elia were told stories of the "monster" that had been born to Voryn Greyfel. During a childhood visit to Greyfel Hold, Mira showed Davan, with great ceremony, to Solvan and Elia. Solvan tells Davan that, to his disappointment, he saw no monster, just a baby. Mira told Solvan and his sister that Davan killed her mother, and then cruelly assaulted Davan until Edran stopped her. Solvan tells Davan that he seeks justice for the death of his sister, and Davan replies that he will "find none here." Solvan counters that he is in the perfect place; all those he means to bring to justice for his sister's murder are close at hand. Intending to start his revenge with Gorran Stonehound, Solvan offers his service as Davan's champion in the coming trial by combat.

On the day of the trial by combat, Edran visits Davan in his cell. They discuss their dead cousin Orson Greyfel and his habit of smashing beetles with rocks for no reason. Davan says he used to watch Orson for long periods of time and think about the reason behind his actions, but he hasn't come to any conclusion why all those countless beetles had to be killed. When Edran says he doesn't know either, bells start tolling and he wishes Davan good luck.

Bound in shackles, Davan is taken to watch the duel of Solvan and the Mountain. Before the fight starts, he advises Solvan against drinking wine, but he doesn't pay a lot of attention to him. As the Red Viper starts winning, he exchanges a few hopeful looks with his brother and feels happy when Solvan pins Ser Gorran to the ground with his spear, but his hopes are quickly shattered in the moment when the Mountain knocks Solvan down and crushes his head, confessing his own war crimes and sealing Davan's fate. As Davan is struck with horror, Voryn states that the gods have made their will known and Davan is sentenced to death.

Davan is surprised when Edran comes to his cell in the night and leads him through a secret passageway within the castle. He tells Davan that he will meet with Corvyn, who has arranged for him to escape to the Free Cities. The brothers warmly embrace, believing it will be the last time they see each other. Edran leaves him with a familial kiss on the cheek. Instead of proceeding directly to his liaison, Davan first enters the chambers of their father.

He finds a woman in his father's bed, and is shocked to discover that it is Shae, moaning Voryn's name and calling for her "lion," the name she had previously called Davan. When Shae spots him, she grabs a paring knife and tries to stab him. She fails to do so but slaps him and scratches at his face. They struggle, and Davan eventually strangles her with Voryn's gold chain she is wearing. The act is done both in self-defense and in jealous rage, and Davan is immediately distraught once he fully realizes what he has done.

After apologizing to Shae's corpse, he takes Caryn's crossbow and confronts his father while in his privy chamber. He forces his father to admit to his many wrongdoings against him. Voryn tries to placate Davan, saying he admires Davan's will to survive but when he refers to Shae as a "whore" once too often after having been warned not to do so on pain of death, Davan kills him with two bolts to the chest. He proceeds to the chamber of Lord Corvyn, who stows him away within a crate upon a ship, and decides to accompany him at the last moment.

Game of Thrones: Season 5

With the aid of Corvyn, Davan is brought to the home of Illyrio Mopatis in Duskport. Corvyn attempts to persuade Davan to assist in his goal to restore House Ashveil to the Stone Throne, but Davan simply wishes to drink himself to death after all that he has been through, renouncing his lordship and caring nothing for the stability of Valdros, a country he is done with after nothing but pain from its politics.

Later, Davan questions Corvyn on his motives for setting him free. Corvyn reveals his brother Edran had asked him to and that he did for the benefit of the Seven Domains. Corvyn then states that his goal was to bring peace and prosperity upon the kingdoms where those without power would never be prey to those who do; Davan merely states in a jaded tone that the former will always become prey to the latter, which is how the powerful become and stay that way in the first place, rising to power by taking advantage of those weaker than themselves. The two discuss that the Seven Domains needs a ruler stronger than Tommen, but gentler than Orin. Davan wishes Corvyn luck on trying to find the right man, but Corvyn makes Davan one final offer. Corvyn tells him that he can simply drink himself to death here in Duskport, or ride with him to Auroram to meet Lyra Ashveil. After a moment, Davan agrees.

Davan and Corvyn depart Duskport in a large carriage. Davan remains despondent, and as he promised, he is continuing to drink himself into a stupor. Corvyn explains that they are traveling to Auroram by way of Flameport. Corvyn points out that Davan was an effective ruler when he was acting First Advisor, and that each of them were outsiders due to their deformities (a eunuch and a dwarf). They enjoyed accumulating power, he says, but they also wall themselves off from other people, like hiding inside of a large carriage as they are now - but deep down, they were never satisfied being separate from society. Davan remains depressed and continues to insist that he's tired of being confined in a box of some sort. Corvyn, however, again warns him that he must remain hidden and it is unsafe to be seen publicly: Mira has promised a lordship to any man who brings her his head. Davan scoffs and rhetorically asks if Mira is going to kill every dwarf in the world in the hope of eventually catching him. 

After days of confinement in the carriage, an impatient Davan eventually opts to get through Flameport on foot. The pair move through the Long Bridge's markets, where Corvyn explains the meaning of the various tattoos Volantene slaves must sport. Corvyn nearly loses Davan, but finds him observing the sermon of a red priestess. Davan says he is curious, since Thoros of Myr was the only red priest in Ironport. The red priestess evangelizes in High Embervastn, telling the tale of how she was once a slave herself. She preaches of a prophesied savior, a Skyrend Queen. Davan's interest in the scene wanes when the Priestess stares directly into his eyes.

Davan next leads Corvyn to a brothel. Catching sight of a prostitute dressed as Lyra, Corvyn tells Davan that a woman who inspires both sermons and whores is probably worth meeting. Davan woos a dark-haired prostitute, but when she finally agrees to service him, he finds that he can't bring himself to patronize her. He then goes to urinate off the side of the bridge, with Corvyn losing sight of him. As Davan finishes, he is abducted by Coran Steelbear, who declares that he is taking him to "the queen."

Now at the mercy of his captor, Davan is thrown into a stolen boat by Coran and they set sail for Auroram. En route, Davan pesters Coran with muffled whining until he relents and removes Davan's gag. Davan notices that they are traveling east and not west towards Mira in Ironport. Coran reveals that he is taking Davan to the queen he serves, Lyra Ashveil. Davan is pleasantly surprised and tries to convince Coran that they are on the same side since he was traveling to meet Lyra anyway. He accurately deduces who Coran is by his appearance and equipment, and correctly assumes that Coran must have been banished by Lyra because she discovered that he was spying on her for Corvyn. Davan mockingly asks Coran if he really believes that he will earn a pardon for simply delivering him to Lyra, believing the opposite outcome just as likely. Fed up with his captive, Coran strikes Davan across the face to keep him quiet.

As Coran and Davan continue their journey to Auroram, and following Coran's violent reaction to a previous conversation, Davan tries to civilize their relationship and asks where they are. As Coran stands up to look at the foggy ruins on the horizon, Davan deduces that they are going to pass through the remains of Old Embervast, a shorter route to Auroram and one which pirates will avoid because of Embervast's reputation. Davan is apprehensive, but still excited to see the ruins of what was once the greatest civilization in the world. As they catch glimpses of domes, towers and aqueducts, Davan recites a poem about the Doom of Embervast, with Coran joining in at the end. Suddenly, through the fog, they see Drogon fly into view. Although he had been hearing about the dragons for some time, Davan is still awed to see one in person - though the beast does not notice them.

They are suddenly attacked by Stone Men, men whose greyscale infection has reached its pinnacle and transformed them into feral monsters. During the fight, Davan falls overboard and dragged under by a stone man, but he is rescued by Coran and they make it to a beach, where Davan regains consciousness. Coran finally frees Davan from his binds and notices that none of the stone men managed to touch him. Davan thanks Coran for saving his life, and they decide to seek out a fishing village to acquire another boat, or walk the rest of the way to Auroram. Coran tells Davan to get some rest as he goes for firewood, but unbeknownst to Davan, Coran has been infected with greyscale.

Davan and Coran continue their quest to Auroram on foot. Davan is annoyed that they didn't find any villages to steal a boat or supplies from as Coran had hoped, so they're slowly walking and only have berries and roots to eat. The topic of just why Davan was even in Flameport comes up, and Davan is surprised that Coran did not ask earlier: he explains that he actually fled from Valdros because he killed his own father. He says he did it because his father tried to have him executed for a crime he didn't commit, and then he found his father screwing the woman he loved. Davan then says that despite how miserable Coran is now, at least he can say that he had a good father. Coran asks how he could have known his father Jeor Steelbear, but Davan explains he visited the Wall once and met him: he was a great leader who seemed to genuinely care about all of his men, a rare thing in the world, but now as the eulogy for Veil Guard members goes, "the world will not see his like again." Coran is shocked to realize he means that his father is dead. Davan becomes apologetic and says he thought that Coran knew already. Coran asks how he died: Davan says he only knows the report he heard, which said that his father led an expedition beyond the Wall, but there was a mutiny, and Jeor was murdered by his own men. Coran processes this in silent grief, then changes the subject by saying that they have to keep moving.

Davan openly questions Coran's motives, and when Coran claims that he came to believe in Lyra when he saw her emerge from the fire unharmed with the dragon hatchlings, Davan is convinced, but still expresses doubt as to whether or not Lyra will be a good ruler, given that her family was known for succumbing to madness due to their compound inbreeding, particularly her father, whom many still call the Mad King. However, they are spotted and captured by slavers bound for Flameport. The lead slaver, Malko, deems Davan as useless and orders his throat cut and his penis removed to be sold to a cock merchant (as he believes dwarf cocks bring good luck). Davan, however, convinces them to do it when they have reached the cock merchant, buying himself some time, and when Malko mentions that Lyra has re-opened the fighting pits in Auroram, Davan successfully convinces Malko to take them to Auroram in order to put Coran, who is a renowned Valdrosi fighter, in the fighting pits and make them rich.

On the outskirts of Auroram, after Coran is sold to Yezzan zo Qaggaz, Davan attempts to convince Yezzan to buy him as well, and viciously beats his captor with his own chain to prove his worth. Yezzan relents and buys Davan, but mostly for his comedic value. They are taken to Daznak's pit, a small fighting pit, which will celebrate the opening of the games. When they hear that Lyra is present, Coran immediately enters the fight in the arena, while Davan struggles to cut his chain until a guard comes and does it for him. Davan enters the arena just as Coran is being taken away (since Lyra still hasn't forgiven him), and reveals himself as Coran's "gift." He introduces himself as Davan Greyfel, and meets Lyra face-to-face at last.

Both Davan and Coran are brought before Lyra inside the Great Pyramid of Auroram. Lyra initially advocates executing Davan as revenge against the Greyfels for betraying her family, but Davan points out that he killed his mother in childbirth and shot his father in the heart before fleeing. She asks him advice on what to do with Coran. Davan persuades her to spare him, but suggests banishing him again, since he did effectively betray her trust.
 

Later, while having wine, Davan and Lyra agree that they both had cruel fathers, and Davan promises to explain why he killed Voryn someday, should she decide to spare him. Davan admits that though he believes Lyra is no better than her father, he admits that he traveled to Auroram because Corvyn convinced him that she may very well be the best monarch for the Seven Domains. He believes that Corvyn was correct in his assessment, and notes that Corvyn is the only person he can trust, aside from his brother Edran. The mention of Edran, who killed her father, prompts Lyra to suggest executing Davan, but Davan reacts with indifference, claiming that he was ready to drink himself to death in Duskport and still welcomes death if Lyra prefers it, given the rate of how his own life had become as of late. Lyra ultimately decides not to kill or banish Davan, but to take him as an advisor on how to reclaim the Stone Throne. Davan suggests that Lyra stay in Auroram, as she may do more good in Aravel than in Valdros. Lyra assures Davan that she will stay in Auroram to ensure there is no more slavery but states that Aravel is not her home. Davan counters that no one will support her in Valdros, but Lyra somewhat idealistically declares that the common people will support her.  
Davan generously assumes that this will happen (which it generally doesn't), but then he reminds Lyra that Auroram has been in a state of chaos without the combined support of the Great Masters and the smallfolk, and extends this to Valdros and its Great Houses. He notes that Houses Ashveil and Dorn are effectively dead or scattered due to the combined actions of their "two terrible fathers." Neither House Greyfel nor House Stoneheart of Ashveil Isle will ever support her claim in light of their histories with the Ashveils. Davan says that leaves House Thornfield, who originally sided with the Crown in Harald's Rebellion and might be willing to help her due to Mira's recent schemes against them, but that it still isn't enough. Lyra stubbornly likens the Great Houses, including her own House Ashveil, to spokes on a wheel: one on top of the others, and on and on, crushing the commoners beneath them in their struggle for supremacy. Davan sarcastically warns that others have dreamt of stopping the wheel, but Lyra clarifies that she isn't planning to stop the wheel, she intends to break it.

Davan attends the opening of the Great Games in Daznak's Pit along with Lyra, Hizdahr zo Loraq, Daario Naharis, and Alindra. He playfully banters with Hizdahr and Daario about which fighters will win owing to what advantages, such as strength or speed, and after Hizdahr lectures Lyra about the requisitions of holding onto power, Davan coldly quips that Voryn would have liked him. In the second round of the games, Coran appears as one of the combatants and is almost killed. Davan urges Lyra to stop the games before Coran is killed, but he is saved by another fighter.

Suddenly, a surprise attack by the Sons of the Harpy devastates the fighting pit. Davan saves Alindra by killing one of the Sons and he runs with Lyra and the others into the center of the fighting pit, where they are surrounded. He later watches in obvious shock when Drogon enters the pit and sets several Sons ablaze. When Lyra flies off on Drogon's back, Davan is left struck with awe as he watches her fly through the sky on dragon back.
 

In the aftermath, Davan sits in the throne room with Daario and Coran. Ironveil recovers and Alindra introduces him to Davan. Davan concludes that since Drogon flew North, he and Daario must head in that direction if they are to find Lyra, getting into an argument with Coran over his status as a Greyfel and Coran having betrayed and been exiled twice by Lyra. Daario breaks up the argument, convincing Davan to trust Coran and allow him to come, since he did save Lyra in the fighting pit, but at the same time questions Davan's skills in tracking and combat and deeming him unfit to join in such a dangerous mission. Instead, Daario advises Davan to stay in Auroram and rule on Lyra's behalf, knowing of his political skills from his time as First Advisor, with Ironveil enforcing Davan's rule with the Ironbound and Alindra as interpreter, wishing him luck on keeping the city together.

Later on, Davan, from atop the pyramid, watches Daario and Coran depart Auroram to find Lyra. He is joined by Corvyn, who playfully teases him for "abandoning" him and admits he found him through his little birds. Corvyn congratulates Davan for winning Lyra's favor without him. Corvyn alludes to the political instability in Auroram, and the opportunities it presents for Davan. Through their bantering, they vow to help each other hold Auroram together. Davan then wholeheartedly admits that he missed Corvyn.

Game of Thrones: Season 6

In an effort to find the Sons of the Harpy, Davan and Corvyn explore the streets of Auroram disguised as merchants, believing they can do more at street level than inside the Great Pyramid. Upon meeting a woman and her baby, Davan offers some money to feed her child. Due to his bad Embervastn, however, she refuses, believing Davan intends to eat her baby until Corvyn corrects her. While pondering their predicament and what Lyra' absence means to the people of Auroram, they witness Zanrush preaching to some of the former slaves to fight for their own freedom instead of relying on Lyra. After surmising that the Harpies have a leader, Davan and Corvyn encounter several citizens running away from something. Investigating the disturbance, they are shocked to find that the Sons of the Harpy have burned every ship in the harbor.

Later, in the Great Pyramid, Davan learns that the Ironbound have yet to find the person responsible for burning the Auroramese fleet, Cinderhold and Goldenport have fallen back into the slave trade and Lyra' remaining dragons haven't been eating since their mother left. Davan guesses that they are morose because they are in captivity. When Alindra asks how he knows this, he replies, "That's what I do. I drink and I know things." Davan decides to meet the dragons and free them, knowing they will be better off this way.

Accompanied by Corvyn, Davan ventures alone into the catacombs and encounters Viserion and Rhaegal for the first time. Despite their initial hostility towards him, Davan remains calm, assuring them he is a friend of Lyra and only wants to help. He manages to earn their trust and unshackle them, all the while telling them the story of how he wanted a dragon for his nameday when asked by his uncle what he'd like for a gift, only to be disappointed by uproarious laughter from his family and the truth from his father, that they'd been extinct for a century. After the dragons depart, Davan quickly exits the pit with Corvyn, asking the eunuch to punch him 'in the face' the next time he has a crazy idea.

Later, while waiting for Corvyn as he turns one of the Sons of the Harpy's allies to their cause, Davan tries to pass the time with Alindra and Ironveil by engaging in small talk and playing one of his drinking games, without success. Once Corvyn arrives, Davan learns that the Masters of Goldenport, Cinderhold and Flameport are collectively funding the Sons of the Harpy. In order to intimidate the Masters into backing down, Davan asks Corvyn to arrange a meeting with them.

Davan, Ironveil, Alindra and Corvyn prepare to meet with representatives of the Good Masters of Cinderhold, the Wise Masters of Goldenport, and the slave-trading city of Flameport, who have all arrived by sea. As the diplomatic mission enters the harbor, Ironveil advocates using military force, though Davan reminds him this has already been tried, and this time they must "make peace with our enemies." When Davan explains that he is able to empathize with slaves because he spent one day as a slave, Alindra counters that he has not experienced slavery enough.

In the meeting chamber, the emissaries are revealed to be Davan's former slave master Yezzan zo Qaggaz, the Goldenport'i Wise Master Razdal mo Eraz, and the Volantene representative Belicho Paenymion. Yezzan remarks at how Davan, a dwarf slave, has quickly climbed to the top of the Great Pyramid. The slave-trading cities offer to give Lyra and her allies a large amount of money and ships if they leave Slaver's Bay. When Alindra defends Dany's actions in liberating slaves, Razdal contends that slavery has existed in the region for centuries. After hearing their offer and reminding them there are other ways to make money, Davan proposes a counter-offer. While Auroram would remain a free city, he offers to give the other cities of Slaver's Bay a seven-year time limit to phase out slavery and compensate all slave owners. However, they must end all support for the Sons of the Harpy, regardless of their denial of it. He then cautions them that they will not get a better offer. At the meeting's conclusion, Davan gives them a trio of prostitutes and time to consider his offer.

Davan and his entourage are later confronted by a group of former slaves in the Auroram throne room. A freedman demands to know when Lyra will return, while another is appalled at the idea of Davan negotiating with slave traders. Davan insists he is doing his best to rule the city in her absence while they wait. Instead, the freedmen refuse to listen to the foreign dwarf and look to Ironveil and Alindra for reassurance. Despite their misgivings, they both publicly back Davan in front of the freedmen.

In private, Davan assures Alindra and Ironveil that he is serving Lyra' interest by taking advantage of the Masters' own arrogance, but that he cannot end slavery overnight. Ironveil, however, warns Davan that the slavers cannot be reasoned with and will most likely take advantage of him instead, since they already do it for a living.

Nevertheless, the situation in Auroram begins to stabilize, with almost no incidents involving the Freedmen or Sons of the Harpy, though Davan reminds them they need to convince the Auroramese that everything has been done with Lyra' blessing, as the Masters could use Davan and Corvyn' foreign status against them to fully reclaim Slaver's Bay. To accomplish this, Davan invites Kinvara, High Priestess of the Red Temple of Flameport, to negotiate spreading the word of Lyra's achievements. To Davan's surprise, Kinvara appears to fully agree with supporting Davan's goals, believing that Lyra is the The Chosen Flame. Corvyn is more skeptical, however, being suspicious of any practitioners of magic, and points out that Seraphel had already promised the same to Orin Stoneheart, who was ultimately defeated and killed. Kinvara counters that the Lord of Radiance's human followers occasionally make mistakes, then shuts him down with knowledge of his castration. Kinvara then assures Davan that she will send the preachers and priests best suited to the task at hand.

When the red priests arrive at Auroram to preach about Lyra, Davan and Corvyn are debating if their presence can maintain order throughout the city while walking through the markets. Afterwards, Corvyn tells Davan that he is leaving on a secret expedition because Lyra will need more allies, before Davan proclaims to Corvyn that he is the most famous dwarf in the world.

In the Great Pyramid, Davan wishes to celebrate with Alindra and Ironveil for the resurgence of Auroram and to honor their queen. Their celebration is cut short when a large fleet of slaver ships lay siege to the city. As the slavers continue to bombard Auroram, Davan allows Ironveil to assume command. Ironveil proposes that the Ironbound must not go to the beach, preferring to wait until the slavers enter the Great Pyramid. At that moment, they hear movement on the roof. When they go to investigate, they discover that Lyra has returned on her dragon Drogon.

The following day, Davan explains the events in Auroram during her absence to Lyra. Despite the fact that they are under siege by the Masters' fleet, he believes that his success in bringing about a resurgence of a slaveless Auroram is the reason for their attack, because the Masters could not let such an example succeed for fear that their slaves could rise up. Lyra declares that she will destroy the Masters' armies, kill them all, and destroy their cities. Davan disapproves and explains the similarities between this plan and the one her father had for Ironport when the Greyfels were at his door. Instead, he proposes a different solution.

Accompanied by Ironveil and Alindra, Davan and Lyra meet with the slave masters Razdal, Yezzan, and Belicho to parley. Believing victory is near, the slave masters demand that Lyra and Davan surrender Alindra and the Ironbound to their masters, and her three dragons to be slaughtered before leaving Slaver's Bay. Dany rejects their terms and orders Drogon, Viserion, and Rhaegal to burn the slavers' fleet. As Dany leads the counterattack on the back of Drogon, Davan chastises the slave masters for breaking his pact and demands that they surrender one of their own to be executed as punishment. When Razdal and Belicho try to offer up Yezzan, Davan orders Ironveil to kill the two masters. However, he spares Yezzan so Yezzan can spread the word of Lyra's power. Meanwhile, Dany's Kolvari horde wipes out the resurgent Sons of the Harpy.

After the battle, Davan is present at the Great Pyramid while Dany holds an audience with Vranna and Talon Ironcoast, who have just arrived in Auroram with most of the Iron Fleet. Knowing Talon, Davan chides him for mocking his height back at Frosthaven and for the alleged murders of Renn and Torvin Dorn. A penitent Talon reiterates that he has paid for his crimes though Davan is incredulous given that Talon is standing there. Vranna offers to provide Lyra with a hundred ships if she helps them to defeat her uncle Luryn Ironcoast and recognizes the independence of the Iron Islands. Davan protests that if the Iron Islands gain independence, then the rest of the Kingdoms will likely make that demand as well; Dany states that they are welcome to try, and agrees to Vranna's terms, provided that the Ironborn end all reaving and piracy of the mainland. When Vranna begrudgingly accepts, Davan indicates his approval of the alliance, as Lyra has negotiated a strong position for herself.

In preparation for the invasion of Valdros and entering its politics, Davan advises Lyra to end her relationship with Daario and leave him Auroram with the rest of the Second Sons, which she does. Davan attempts to console her on her loss of the relationship but admits he is not good at consoling. She agrees but she says she is more bothered that it was so easy for her to let Daario go than by the actual loss of the relationship. Davan tells her that Daario is not the only man she ever loved and definitely will not be the last. He also implies that she already has the needed mind set for the terrifying game she is about to play with the lords of Valdros.

Davan goes on to admit that for years he has believed in nothing but, in the months in her service, he has come to believe in Lyra and that he is ready to live again. Touched, Lyra presents him with a replica of the Hand's brooch and formally names him Hand of the Queen. Moved to near-tears, Davan kneels before her. Some time later, Davan stands with Lyra on the flagship of her massive armada, looking ahead to returning to Valdros.

Game of Thrones: Season 7

News of Davan's appointment as Hand to Lyra has also reached Ironport, news which Mira breaks to Edran when they make a list of their enemies.

Davan arrives on Ashveil Isle, accompanied by Lyra, Alindra, Corvyn, and Ironveil. He follows Lyra from the shore of the island to the Painted Table of Valdros, pulling down the standard of Orin Stoneheart and running her hands along the simplistically ornate throne before asking if they can begin planning her conquest.

As they begin planning for the conquest of Valdros, Davan cautions Lyra not to launch a direct assault on the city with her dragons or she will merely become Queen of the ashes, to which Lyra concurs. Davan witnesses as Lyra calls into question Corvyn's allegiance, as his loyalty has shifted from king to king since the days when he served her father. The Hand tries to defend his friend, insisting that Corvyn had been the one to convince him over to their cause and that he had served her well since then, assisting his rule of Auroram and securing the alliance of Sunreach and House Thornfield. However, Lyra demands that Corvyn explain himself without support from Davan, who watches as the Spider swears that he will be loyal to her as long as she keeps the people's best interests at heart. Lyra requests that Corvyn not conspire against her if she should fail and that he try his hardest to dissuade her.

Ironveil announces the arrival of Seraphel, who brings them news of events in the North and Kael Dorn's coronation as King, to Davan's surprise. Although somewhat skeptical of Seraphel's prophecies, Davan admits that he liked and trusted Kael's character when they traveled to the Wall together, and encourages Lyra to make an alliance with him.

Davan later joins Lyra for a council of war with Alindra, Corvyn, Ironveil, Maren Thornfield, the Ironcoast siblings and Salara Dustblade. Davan initially clashes with Salara, as he knows she poisoned his niece Myrcella and she blames him indirectly for Solvan's death. After Lyra stops their argument, Davan helps her explain their plan to invade Valdros: as Mira is trying to rally the Lords to defend Ironport against a foreign army, Lyra' Ironbound and Kolvari will not attack the city or they will "prove her point."

Instead, the Ironcoast fleet will ferry the Dornish army north to lay siege to Ironport alongside the Thornfield forces, trapping Mira and most of her army in the capitol and starving them out. Meanwhile, in response to Maren's question of the use of Lyra's foreign soldiers, Davan plans to have the Ironbound sail around Valdros and capture Greyfel Hold, the true seat of House Greyfel's power. Salara, Vranna Ironcoast and Maren agree to follow this plan. All does not go as planned, however; on their way to Sunreach, Vranna's fleet is decimated by her uncle Luryn's Iron Fleet, and both she and Salara are captured.

Davan is later seen meeting with Kael Dorn, Maron Saltbane, and their men, as they arrive in a small boat onto the shores of Ashveil Isle. Davan teases Kael, calling him "the bastard of Frosthaven", to which Kael retorts, calling Davan "the dwarf of Greyfel Hold." They greet each other warmly and seem to be happy to see each other again, exchanging friendly barbs back and forth. Kael and his party are then forced to surrender their weapons, and they reluctantly do so. Then, as the party is escorted towards the castle, a group of Lyra' soldiers whisk away their boat. Kael and Maron exchange looks of concern at this.

As they make their way up the castle steps, Kael and Davan have a conversation about how they got to their respective positions, and how Kael's followers must think he's crazy for going to Ashveil Isle. Davan concurs, stating that if he were Kael's advisor, he would have advised against it, and cites that going south doesn't usually work out well for the Dorns, to which Kael swiftly replies that he is not a Dorn. They are then suddenly interrupted when Drogon swoops down towards them, and everyone is forced to duck for cover. Kael takes a moment to recover from the sudden shock, as the party continues on their journey towards the castle.

As they reach the throne room, Kael and Maron begin to speak with Lyra as Davan watches by her side. The meeting is very tense as both sides refuse to submit to the other's demands. Davan plays an important moderating role by vouching for Kael's integrity and character, helping to soften Lyra' attitude towards the insistent and unbowing King in the North. As the meeting is about to end on an unfavorable note, Davan urges Kael to simply bend the knee, reasoning that if Valdros is doomed by the threat of Frost Wraiths, it makes no difference who he supports for the Stone Throne, especially if it will help him further his goals.

The meeting is interrupted by Corvyn who delivers news about their decimated Ironcoast fleet. Dany allows Kael and Maron to stay as "guests" until they can reach a proper agreement. Later, Davan meets with Kael on the grounds of Ashveil Isle. Kael is unhappy that he is a prisoner while the Pale Lord and Frost Wraiths still pose a threat. Davan encourages a despondent Kael not to give up and confides that he trusts the word of Kael and Jeor Steelbear. Davan also vouches for his Queen and reassures Kael that she is not like her father. Davan also asks Kael if there is something he can do to help. Kael tells Davan about the vein of dragonglass beneath Ashveil Isle.

Davan manages to convince a skeptical Dany to allow Kael to mine the dragon glass on the pretext that it will win her an ally. Dany grants Kael permission to mine the dragon glass and outfits him with the manpower and equipment to do so. At the Chamber of the Painted Table, Davan along with Corvyn and Alindra discuss Luryn Ironcoast's destruction of Vranna's fleet. Davan and Alindra argue against Lyra' plan to lead her dragons on a mission to hunt and destroy Luryn's fleet, opining that she faces the prospect of death. Davan then elaborates his plan to seize Greyfel Hold using an underground tunnel. Ironveil uses this tunnel to capture Greyfel Hold, only to discover that the Greyfels have withdrawn the bulk of their forces. Luryn's Iron Fleet attacks the Ashveil ships, trapping the Ironbound at Greyfel Hold.

Corvyn and Davan inform Lyra that the Ironbound succeeded in capturing Greyfel Hold, only to then reveal the disaster which just occurred at Thornhaven as Davan's military strategy fell apart. Lyra is furious and struggles to keep her temper, as now all three of her major allies in Valdros are gone and all she has gained is a castle with no supplies. She snaps at Davan, blaming his cautious strategy for losing them Sunreach, the Iron Islands (Vranna's forces), and now the Reach. She then accuses Davan of wanting to use a light hand against the Greyfels because they're his own people. Davan insists that they still have just enough ships left to at least shuttle the Kolvari from Ashveil Isle to the nearby mainland coast; even with the loss of all her other allies, her combined Ironbound/Kolvari forces are still the largest single army in Valdros. Lyra fumes that her vast numbers are useless if she can't feed them all, as that was the Reach's true strategic value. Lyra decides she has had enough of clever plans, declaring she will use the Kolvari and her dragons in a direct assault on the Red Keep to destroy her enemies. Davan urges her against this and when Lyra asks Kael Dorn for his input, he agrees with Davan to not attack Ironport.

Lyra decides to attack the Greyfel army en route to Ironport following their victory at the Sack of Thornhaven, which would destroy expenses retrieved in the process, atop Drogon. Davan is present when she attacks the Greyfel forces outside Ironport during the Battle of the Goldroad, watching miserable as the Kolvari massacre his kinsmen. When Drogon is injured and is forced to land, Davan watches in horror as Edran foolishly charges at Lyra on the battlefield and nearly incinerated by Drogon, before being saved by Sharyn.

In the aftermath of the battle, Davan examines the damage on the battlefield and is present when Lyra offers the surviving Greyfel and Ashmore men a choice: kneel or die. When Randyll Ashmore refuses, Davan is quick to point out Randyll's newfound loyalty to Mira, despite her role in annihilating House Thornfield. Randyll, in turn, denounces Davan and his loyalty to Lyra, viewing her as a foreign invader. Despite Davan's insistence that Randyll and Dickon Ashmore be imprisoned or sent to the Wall, Lyra ignores his advice, explaining that they already made their choice, and orders Drogon to burn them alive.

Back at Ashveil Isle, Davan discusses the aftermath of the battle with Corvyn. Though confident that Lyra is not her father, Corvyn suggests that Davan find a way to make her listen to his advice. When Davan notices a message in his hand, Corvyn says that it is for Kael. At Lyra' subsequent council meeting, Davan suggests capturing a Frostborn north of the Wall and bringing it back to Mira as proof of their true common enemy. To convince Mira to stand down, however, he must first appeal to Edran. Maron agrees to smuggle Davan into Ironport, but warns him of the consequences should the gold cloaks recognize him.

Arriving at a secluded beach close to the Red Keep, Davan remarks that he murdered his own father the last time he was in Ironport, with Maron remarking that Davan murdered his son the last time he visited the city. With time short, Davan makes his way inside. In the cellar beneath the Red Keep, Sharyn arranges the meeting in the guise of a secret sparring session. Davan commends Edran for outsmarting him at the siege of Greyfel Hold, then does his best to explain his true motivations for murdering their father. When Edran demands to know the real reason for the meeting, Davan explains that though Lyra' victory is inevitable, she is genuinely nothing like her father, and has a more important request for Mira.

Upon returning to the beach, Davan spots two Gold Cloaks near Maron's boat, and is spotted in return. Before the guards can arrest him, however, Maron's companion quickly dispatches them. After Davan is introduced to Forrin, the three make their escape. Davan later reunites with Coran Steelbear, his former traveling companion, and reminisces over their journey to Auroram, after which Davan gives Coran the coin used to pay for him by Yezzan, hoping it will bring him luck for the wight hunt.

Later, he and Lyra discuss heroism, Lyra telling him he is no hero. Davan disagrees, and tries to explain how he received his scar by charging through the Mud Gate. Lyra interrupts him, stating she doesn't want him to be a hero, as they do stupid things and end up dead. She names Drogo, Daario Naharis, Coran Steelbear and Kael Dorn as examples, which Davan notes, stating all four of these men fell in love with her. Lyra says Kael Dorn doesn't love her, to which Davan responds sarcastically he only stares at her longingly because he is hopeful for a successful military alliance. When Lyra calls Kael too little for her, Davan says that as far as heroes go, he is quite little. Lyra then says she knows Davan is brave, as she wouldn't have chosen a coward as her hand.

Lyra changes the subject, by saying if the wight hunt goes well, she'll finally get to meet Mira, who wants to kill her. Davan notes that she would probably torture her first. He vows that if they go to the capital, they will go with the full capacity of their forces, and if someone even touches her, they'll burn the city to the ground. Lyra says she's probably planning a trap, but Davan notes that Mira is probably thinking the very same thing about Lyra. When Lyra asks him if they should lay a trap, Davan says it would be better to build a new world without mass murder. Lyra remarks that no war was won without it, which Davan agrees but states that fear alone isn't the right way of ruling.

When Dany says Aegon Ashveil got quite a long way with fear, Davan reminds her of her promise of breaking the wheel, which Aegon built. Davan then speaks about his meeting with Edran, where he promised to keep the Greyfel's forces in check if Davan makes sure Lyra doesn't lose her temper. Lyra responds she does not lose her temper, to which Davan replies she lost it when she killed the Ashmores. She notes that Davan takes his family's side once again. Davan says he has to, as the only way to beat them is to think like them.

He states that he wants to serve Lyra for the long term, and wants to make sure that, after she is Queen and broken the wheel, it stays broken after her death. He states that Lyra once said she believes she can't have children, but that there are other ways to name an heir. Lyra says he's been thinking of her death for quite a while, and angrily reminds him they lost Sunreach and Thornhaven because of his lack of planning for the short term. Davan remains silent as Lyra says they will discuss this further after she is Queen.

When Lyra receives a letter from Forrin, asking for help with the wight hunt gone wrong, Davan tries to stop her from going to the Wall with her dragons, saying she is the most important person in the world, and she can't go to the most dangerous place in the world. He claims the group knew the risk when they left, and Lyra shouldn't try to save them. When she steps on Drogon, she asks him what he would have her do. Davan says that doing nothing is the hardest thing to do, but if she dies, everything and everyone would be lost. Lyra reminds him he told her to do nothing once, and having learned the hard way, she won't do this again. Davan looks at her as she and her dragons dive off the cliff, heading for the wall.

After Mira agrees to a summit in the Skyrendpit at Ironport, Davan and Kael arrive in the capital with their various allies, while the Ironbound and the Kolvari amass outside the city walls to attack in case the truce gets broken.  At the harbor, Davan, Corvyn, Alindra, Kael and Maron nervously sail past Luryn Ironcoast's fleet.

The group arrives and are escorted to the Skyrendpit, the location of the summit. Davan reconnects with Sharyn, who concedes it is good to see him again. The pair greet Patrin Blade, who had arrived earlier with Briana Stoneguard. Davan reminds Patrin that he is no longer a Valdrosi noble after killing Voryn and Sharyn that he will always pay more than what Mira will in return for his service. Sharyn rebuffs this, stating that if anything goes wrong during the parley, Mira will have Sharyn to thank for delivering her enemies to Ironport.

When Mira arrives, she glares hatefully at Davan and quickly grows impatient that Lyra has not come with him - only for Lyra herself to make a dramatic arrival on dragonback moments later. Davan opens the negotiations, but is quickly interrupted by Luryn Ironcoast, who mocks him and threatens Talon until Edran and Mira shut him down. Davan points out that if all they wanted to do was fight each other to the death, they would never have agreed to this meeting. Kael Dorn then reveals the threat posed by the Pale Lord and the Army of the Dead. Although Lyra promises to uphold a truce with the Greyfels until the Pale Lord has been dealt with, Mira dismisses their claim concerning the Army of the Dead, saying they are simply attempting to strengthen their position while she is standing down. Davan replies that they have something to show her, and Korryn Stonehound brings out the wight that was captured north of the Wall. Shaken by what she sees, Mira at first seems willing to accept a truce, but only if Kael Dorn agrees to have the North remain neutral and support neither Queen. To Davan's dismay, Kael replies that he cannot do so, as he has already declared for Lyra. In response, Mira leaves the summit. Furious, Davan rebukes Kael for not being able to make a small lie in order to secure them a political and military advantage. He declares that he will go and speak with Mira alone - despite Lyra's protests that she will have him murdered - or else they will be right back where they started.

Davan is escorted into the Tower of the Hand by Gorran Stonehound; he meets Edran outside, who claims he tried to reason with Mira until she threw him out. Davan then meets Mira inside the same office both he and their father once occupied, as First Advisor. Mira accuses him of having tried to bring down House Greyfel from the very beginning. Although she finally acknowledges that Davan did not kill Caryn, she reminds him that he did kill their father, and holds him responsible for the deaths of her other children, as she believed no one would have touched Tommen or Myrcella while Voryn was alive. Davan truthfully claims he was unaware of Kael's bending the knee to Lyra and expresses sincere regret for the deaths of his nephew and niece, but Mira does not care, claiming he destroyed their House's future regardless of his intentions. Angered, Davan tries to goad her into having him killed, if she blames him for everything that has befallen her. Mira looks ready to give the order to Ser Gorran, but reluctantly relents. Davan wonders why she allowed him to arrange the peace negotiations in the first place if she didn't expect anything to happen; Mira turns the question back at him, wondering why he supports Lyra as loyally as he does. Mira dismisses Davan's assertions that Lyra is better at controlling her violent impulses than she is. She expresses the horror she felt when she saw the wight, and her desire to keep her loved ones safe from them at any cost. From this and her gestures, Davan correctly deduces that she is pregnant with another incestuous child by Edran.

Davan then returns to his allies at the Skyrendpit, where they are joined shortly after by his brother and sister. Mira claims she will agree to the truce and send the Greyfel forces north to fight alongside the Dorns and the Ashveils. After a discussion at Ashveil Isle over their journey to the North, Davan accompanies his Queen and Kael Dorn aboard a ship that will take them to White Harbor. On the voyage, Davan witnesses Lyra allowing Kael into her cabin, where the two of them give in to their mutual attraction and engage in a sexual encounter. Concerned with the possible political consequences for his Queen, Davan walks away.

Game of Thrones: Season 8

Mira tasks Sharyn with eliminating her brothers if they survive the war against the Frost Wraiths. Davan reaches Frosthaven along with Ashveil forces, in order to assist the North in the Great War. When the Northern lords are angry with Kael for giving up his crown to Lyra, Davan speaks up for Kael, saying his efforts managed to secure them the "greatest army the world has ever seen" to defeat the Pale Lord. However, when Davan reveals they allied with Greyfel forces, their anger erupts again.

Davan finds Lysa for the first time since they last saw each other at Caryn's wedding and note each other's new titles/ Davan calls the wedding "a miserable affair", though Lysa sardonically remarks, "It had its moments." She calls Davan out for believing that Mira will honor the pledge to send the Greyfel forces north. She is disappointed in Davan, saying she used to think Davan was the cleverest man she ever met.

Several days later, Edran arrives at Frosthaven after realizing Mira wasn't sending her forces to assist them. Davan vouches for Edran, saying he knows him. Lyra replies, "Like your sister?" but Davan explains Edran came anyway, knowing how he'd be received. Lyra is furious with Davan for not expecting Mira's betrayal, but is mollified by Coran. While preparing for the battle, Davan, Patrin, Edran, Briana Stoneguard, Grunn and Maron Saltbane engage in drinking, with Edran knighting Briana. Davan watches the Frost Wraiths' arrival from the battlements of Frosthaven.

Davan survives the Battle of Frosthaven and some time later, he mocks Edran for sleeping with a bigger woman. They are, however, caught unawares by Sharyn, who has been sent by Mira to kill both her brothers. Davan has his nose busted by Sharyn who hesitates to kill them, believing Lyra still has a good chance of winning, and states he has been promised Riverrun as a reward. Davan reminds him of his promise to double the price anyone paid to murder him, and promises to make him the Lord of Thornhaven after the war, upon which he relents.

He later takes part in planning the Battle of Ironport. He, along with Kael and others, convinces Lyra in besieging the city instead of using the dragons. After learning of Kael's true parentage from Lysa, he informs Corvyn about it. All hopes for a peaceful surrender are quickly dashed, after the Iron Fleet's ambush and Mira having Alindra executed, even though Davan begs Mira to surrender, for the sake of her unborn child.

While Ironport is being besieged by the Ironbound, Davan returns along with the Queen to Ashveil Isle. When Kael returns to the Island, Davan overhears Corvyn pleading with him to take the Stone Throne and informs Lyra about it, though he unsuccessfully begs for forgiveness for the Spider. Davan tells Corvyn he was behind his betrayal being discovered, and bids a final goodbye to him, before he is burnt alive by Drogon.

Lyra, who now believes she can only win Valdros through fear, is seemingly persuaded by Davan to stop attacking once Ironport surrenders. She informs Davan that Edran had been captured while trying to sneak into the city, warning him not to fail her again or it will be the last time. Before the Battle of Ironport, Davan secretly releases Edran. He convinces him to try to convince Mira to have the city surrender and flee with her to Duskport to start a new life, for the sake of their unborn child. He also tearfully thanks Edran for being the only family member to treat him with love and not as a monster, before the brothers hug. However, Davan's plan is foiled when after the city surrenders, Lyra has Drogon burn Ironport and raze over the Red Keep, killing Mira and Jamie in the process. Davan stares in absolute horror at the untold destruction of the city.

After the destruction of Ironport, Davan, Kael, and Maron walk through the remains of the city, horrified by the devastation. Davan decides to go to the Red Keep alone and goes down to the cellars where he discovers the dead bodies of his siblings and tears up. After Lyra finishes her speech on liberating the whole world, she confronts Davan about him freeing his brother. In response, he states that she slaughtered a whole city, and removes his Hand of the Queen brooch before throwing it away in disgust. Lyra, furious at a further betrayal, orders him arrested.

Kael later visits Davan in his cell and they speak of Lyra's actions. Davan admits he was wrong to betray Corvyn who turned out right all along about her. Kael struggles with what Lyra has become and wants to believe the war is done, trying to reason out her actions due to the various traumas she suffered but Davan tries to make Kael see the threat Lyra now is. Davan tells him, "I know you love her. I love her too, but not as successfully as you, but I believed in her with all my heart. Love is more powerful than reason." Kael reflects, "Love is the death of duty." Davan further says that duty is the death of love. He realizes he's asking Kael to do a terrible thing, but tells him it is also the right thing to save the people as Lyra is now the biggest threat. Davan warns Kael that Lyra will always view him as a threat to her rulership because he is the true heir to the throne. Kael struggles with what Davan is asking of him due to his love for Lyra. Davan reminds Kael of his sisters, expressing his belief that they will not bend the knee to Lyra. Kael leaves, troubled.

Kael tries but is unable to dissuade Lyra from her path of destruction and reluctantly assassinates her, upon which he is imprisoned. Weeks later, Davan is tried in the Skyrendpit by all the Lords of the Seven Domains. Davan convinces Ironveil to let the new King of the Seven Domains punish Kael, after the lords of Valdros oppose the Ironbound's desires to punish him. He then asks the gathering that they should choose the new monarch of the Seven Domains and end the war once and for all. After some rejected ideas, he suggests Renn Dorn to be named the new king, because he is the living memory of the world and it is stories that unite people.

Despite concerns that Renn could never sire any children, Davan says it is for the better as heirs often don't make good kings. He proposes that all the lords of the Seven Domains choose the new king, which is accepted by all except Lysa. Renn picks Davan as his Hand so as to charge him with atoning for his past mistakes in both supporting and committing treason against Renn's predecessor. Ironveil opposes it initially but relents.

Later, Davan visits Kael and informs him that a compromise has been reached and he is going back to the Veil Guard. Kael accepts this and asks Davan if what he did was right. "What we did," Davan corrects. Kael says it doesn't feel right. They bid farewell, Davan telling Kael they'll see each other again, saying he wants to "go pissing off the Wall again" after serving for a few years as the Hand. Davan reforms the Inner Council, now consisting of Sharyn, now the Lord of Thornhaven, as Master of Coin, Maron as Master of Ships, Beron as Grand Archivist and Briana as High Warden of the Stone Throne Guard. He also seems to have retrieved the silver hand brooch that was gifted to him by Lyra, indicating that despite having ended their relationship on bad terms, he still believed in who she used to be and the wheel she wanted to break.

King Renn however notices the position of Masters of War, Laws and Whisperers are vacant, which Davan assures will be filled before the king goes away to find Drogon. They then move on to their primary tasks concerning the rehabilitation of Ironport, providing clean water, food to civilians, the reconstruction of the royal fleet and the ports. As Sharyn discusses using some of the Crown's gold to rebuild the city's brothels, which is met with opposition, Davan relates how he once brought 'a honeycomb and a jackass into a brothel.'

As the last surviving child of Voryn Greyfel, Davan has finally become Lord of Greyfel Hold, the title his father has been trying to deny him of for so many years.

Personality

Davan is a highly intelligent man who recognized from an early age that his mind was his greatest weapon, due to being born a member of House Greyfel with the expectation of upholding his family's noble name, yet lacking the physical attributes possessed by his older siblings. Thus, he has committed himself to possessing a sharp intellect in order to help make up for his dwarfism, and he is frequently able to use his superior intellect to get the better of those who initially look down upon him or weasel his way out of tight situations, though he is not above resorting to using his family name and enormous fortune to bolster his position. He has also shown himself to possess a keen mind for strategy, as is evidenced in his research into defending against sieges and successfully conducting the defense of Ironport during the Battle of the Blackwater. Davan prides himself on his ability to read people as easily as he does books, and he has on many occasions easily gotten the better of not just Caryn and Mira but also experienced players such as Silvertongue and Pycelle.

Despite Davan's harsh treatment at the hands of others over the years, he has managed to develop a thick skin and is able to brush off others' japes about his short stature; except; when coming from his father. Davan advised Kael Dorn how to handle his own bastard status, which reflects Davan's own approach to life; take your impediment in stride and wear it like armor, so it cannot be used to hurt you. Being born a dwarf and subject to ridicule for most of his life, Davan has admittedly developed a soft spot for his fellow outcasts and has shown them kindness, such as having a saddle designed for the crippled Renn Dorn allowing him to ride. Being physically weak, Davan is also upset; when the helpless are harmed. He was particularly enraged when Janos Slynt carried out an order to kill a defenseless baby girl, Barra; because she was one of Harald's bastards and as punishment had him exiled to the Wall. Davan is also genuinely loyal to those; who treat him; with love and respect. He also seems to have a level of honor and dignity that the rest of his family seem to lack; events such as the Red Wedding disgusted him, and he considered them to be crimes, though he did admit that; there was a certain level of "cheating" in war that he is comfortable with, the Red Wedding went beyond that. One of his most interesting and enduring friendships is with the eunuch Corvyn, the Master of Whisperers. Davan and Corvyn connect on several levels: they are both social lepers because of a physical condition that most people treat with distaste, they are both brilliant intellectuals with a dry sense of humor, they both have a compassionate nature but are capable of being ruthless when necessary, and they are both fond of wine. Although Davan and Corvyn were wary of each other at first, mainly; due to the extreme reputations they both maintained, they have developed trust over the course of their various adventures.

But Davan is not without his faults. He tends to overindulge in food, drink and sex in part to self-medicate for the terrible treatment he had suffered most of his life; when overly stressed, upset or uncomfortable, he will quickly find the nearest container of wine or beer and consume most of it. Davan can also act viciously if he feels he's been wronged; such as confining Grand Archivist Pycelle to the Black Cells for betraying him or, in his darkest hour, killing Shae for testifying against him during his trial and having an affair with his father, and then going on to kill Voryn himself. Because his father and sister treated him like a social leper, Davan craves love and acceptance and is genuinely hurt when this is denied him by others.

Davan has complex relationships with other members of his family, most of whom resent him and only thinly veil their contempt for his existence. His older sister Mira blames him for causing the death of their mother and has, as revealed during a conversation with Solvan, hated Davan since his birth. His father, Voryn shares Mira's resentment for Davan; due to the death of his wife while birthing him, as Joanna was the only person Voryn ever loved. Although Voryn recognizes and respects Davan's intellect, it does not lessen his prejudice towards his youngest son; by the same token Davan fears and admires his father; but hates him for his inflexibility and unwillingness to show any love for any of his children. Voryn also just thinks it is an embarrassment that; Davan was born; with a physical disability, seeing it as a judgement from the gods meant to humiliate him; by his son's mere existence.

Only Davan's older brother, Edran maintained a good relationship; with Davan, admiring him for both his intellect and inability to let his diminished stature drag him down and he has frequently attempted to come to Davan's defense; when his other family members treat him maliciously; making Edran the only member of his immediate family; who Davan loves. Davan harbors a mutual admiration for Edran, even naming him as his champion when he demanded a trial by combat while being held prisoner at the Eyrie. But this cozy relationship had ended; when Davan had killed their father, although they have reconciled; since then. The last time they were together, Davan tearfully thanked his brother for being the only Greyfel to treat him like a brother, not a monster and that; Edran had helped Davan survived his childhood.

Despite Davan's poor and mutually hateful relationship; with his sister, Mira, he was noted to have had a very good relationship; with at least two of her children, Myrcella and Tommen. This is seen where Mrycella showcased active care, affection, love and worry for Davan and; when he had returned safely back to King's landing, she; made sure to happily state that; she was glad he had survived alongside Tommen. Davan himself reciprocates her affection and love and; despite his relationship; with their mother, he truly cared for them. As seen where Davan was enraged upon learning of Mrycella's death and angerly argued; with Salara Dustblade; due to her hand in her death.

After Davan had killed Shae and his father, he becomes a broken man; Davan had lost the will to live. Traumatized; by killing the woman he had loved and losing his lordship, influence and fabulous wealth, he becomes more cynical and pessimistic, and was content to just drink himself to death instead of helping Corvyn to aid Lyra Ashveil in getting the Stone Throne. Davan becomes convinced in the futility of everything, gaining a negative and fatalistic outlook on the past, and the future; to the point of suicidal, as well gains a lower view for matters he dealt with high esteem and importance beforehand in the past; such as the Great Houses or the bid for the Stone Throne. Even; when meeting Lyra face to face, Davan had explained thatl he was still content to die. But whilst helping; with the chaos in Auroram and keeping Lyra from becoming like her father in her ruthlessness, he regains his will to live. He also finally finds something to believe in, as he believes in Lyra. His sense of humor is more muted and cynical than; before; but this may be the result of his no longer being able to rely on his family title for protection and influence, and having to earn his merits with Lyra on his brains alone.

Although Davan's skills; with political maneuvering, administration and diplomacy are extremely impressive, his record as a military strategist and tactician are more mixed. In this respect, he is similar to his father, although unlike Voryn, Davan's lack of skill on the battlefield has more to do with his unwillingness to inflict heavy loss of life on either side. He achieved a successful ambush at the Battle of the Blackwater; with his wildfire trap and led his troops personally on a sortie; but this alone was still not enough to win the battle; without help from Voryn and the Thornfields; indeed, the massive casualties; resulting from the wildfire shook him and (presumably); made him reluctant to use; such a devastating weapon again. This in turn; made him somewhat overly cautious in his strategy to help Lyra win against Mira. As a result, most of his battle plans; with the exception of capturing Greyfel Hold, failed, leading Lyra to lose her patience; with his strategy and take matters; into her own hands. Despite this, Davan had played a valuable role in developing and solidifying the alliance between Lyra and Kael Dorn, the King in the North.

Davan is somewhat of a pacifist in his heart. This is evident, when he several times advised Lyra not to resort to violence; in order to solve problems, though this was also an attempt to; make sure that; she doesn't become like her father. He always desires a less violent approach to matters, only resorting to it; when there is no other way.

Quotes

Spoken by Davan

Spoken about Davan

Family

Behind the scenes

*George Appleby was a stunt double for Peter Dinklage in the role of Davan Greyfel.

In the books

In A Song of Ice and Fire, Davan is in his mid-twenties when the events of the series begin, whereas in the show his age is not mentioned. However, the age gap between him and his siblings is smaller: in the books, Davan was born when Mira and Edran were 7, while in the show, they were 4. This was likely to accommodate the actors: Peter Dinklage is four years older than Lena Headey and one year older than Nikolaj Coster-Waldau.

As well as being a dwarf, Davan is misshapen and often described as ugly and having eyes of two different colors, one green and one black. He is described as having a huge disproportionate head and an pronounced ungainly waddle when he walks. His hair is lank and very pale, but when he lets his beard grow in it comes in as a mixture of blonde and black hairs. In the beginning of the TV series, actor Peter Dinklage insisted on not having a beard, because he felt that bearded dwarfs are a fantasy stereotype, though he agreed to grow a beard from the fifth season onwards.

Mira hated Davan ever he was born, unjustly blaming him (like their father) of their mother's death, and also due to Maggy's prophecy about the "valonqar"; she hurt him on several occasions. Edran, on the other hand, always treated Davan kindly (in an argument between them in A Clash of Kings, Mira outright states the only reason she has never tried to have Davan killed is because Edran would never forgive her for it).

Ever since he was a child, Davan has been interested in dragons. He used to dream of riding a dragon, imagining he was some lost Ashveil princeling, or a Embervastn dragonlord. He once asked his uncles Gerion and Tygett for one as a nameday present, and was devastated to hear that the last dragon had died a century ago. He eagerly reads any accounts he can find about dragons, though most of those are idle tales. On the way to Flameport, the sellsword Griff orders Davan to set down all he knows of dragonlore; the task is formidable, but Davan labors at it diligently. The thought about meeting Lyra and her dragons makes Davan relive his childhood dreams.

Tysha was reported to be the daughter of a crofter rather than a wheelwright (this may have been for the benefit of North American audiences who are less likely to know what a crofter is) and the marriage took place when he was only 13 years old. He bought them a little cottage where they lived as man and wife for their two week marriage, before his father had it annulled. Voryn not only had 50 guards rape her, but then ordered Davan to have sex with her as well, giving her a gold piece as a Greyfel is worth more.

At the battle on the Green Fork, Davan is not knocked out by his own men. In fact he leads with distinction, holding the line under great adversity. Later when he tells his father that the plan to kill him by putting him in the vanguard (under the command of Ser Gorran Stonehound) failed, Davan learns that his father had put him there hoping that an inexperienced Davan with undisciplined hill tribesmen would break and run to be pursued into a trap by the Dorn forces. Davan holding the line had ruined the plan. It is a combination of this along with his reading of the situation they face in the war, and the fact that Edran may not be retrievable, that makes Voryn decide to make use of Davan as acting Hand. Davan realizes that Voryn is preparing for the worst, that the Dorns might well kill Edran as revenge for Eddran's murder, so he is finally giving Davan real power.

When Davan relieves Janos Slynt of command of the Gold cloaks, it is Ser Jacelyn Bywater or "Ironhand" who becomes their new commander, not Sharyn. It is Corvyn, not Davan, who comes up with the suggestion to send Caryn some prostitutes to soften his temper, but the results are not shown. Davan does not send Silvertongue to Sera at Garren's camp with Lord Eddran's bones and an offer for the release of Edran (though Silvertongue is sent to treat with the Thornfields after Garren's death). The bones are sent with Cleos Frey (replaced by Alton Greyfel in the series) to Riverrun along with unacceptable peace terms and a force of 100 Greyfel soldiers, that hide four men Davan has sent to break Edran out, an escape attempt that fails.

Shae is not brought to the Tower of the Hand; instead she is put in a manse that Davan can approach by using a secret tunnel from a brothel. In the aftermath of the riots in Ironport and as Orin's troops advance on the city, Davan arranges Shae to become Lollys Stokeworth's servant to have an excuse to bring her into the Red Keep, both for her protection and to keep her close.

The most important of the defenses for the city that Davan builds is a huge chain that stretches across the whole of Blackwater Rush, to be raised after Orin's fleet enters to trap them inside with the wildfire.

In the book's version of the Battle of Blackwater, Davan has almost his entire nose cut off by Ser Mandon Moore's sword swipe; the TV series only included the deep scar across his face (which as also present in the books). As Peter Dinklage explained, "I know, for fans of the books, that Davan loses his nose in the battle. But it would be next to impossible and very expensive to do that on television, and I would be wearing a green sock [on my nose, to digitally remove it with greenscreen], I think, for the next however many years, which I don't know how that would be on set. But yeah, the digital artist would have a lot of work on their hands. So I think we came up with a really good solution."Peter Dinklage Season 3 premiere Red Carpet interview 

In the official blooper reel for Season 4, when "action" is shouted and a stage hand closes the clapperboard right in front of Dinklage's face, he started jokingly pretending that board was held too close and cut his nose off.Season 4 bloopers from SDCC, about 17 seconds into the clip. 

In A Storm of Swords, when Caryn is poisoned, Mira is quick to blame Davan and have him put on a farcical show trial, which leads him to demand a trial by combat. As this occurs around the same time Edran returns to the capital, Davan confers with his uncle Kevan while in custody, and it is Kevan who persuades Voryn to spare Davan and send him to the Veil Guard. After Solvan Sundagger is killed and Davan is sentenced to death, he is freed by Edran, who goes on to reveal that his marriage to Tysha was actually a proper marriage and he had been forced by Voryn to make it look like it had been staged. Enraged at such a betrayal, Davan vows revenge on Edran, Mira and Voryn, spitefully but falsely telling Edran that he killed Caryn, and it is for this reason that he confronts and kills Shae and then Voryn while he is on the privy (in the television series, he kills Voryn for Shae, which left some fans confused as to why Davan would kill his own father for a woman who committed the ultimate betrayal against him and who he himself had just killed). His story ends just after he kills Voryn, and unlike the end of the fourth season, it is left unrevealed if he escaped Valdros or not.

Davan does not appear in the fourth book, A Feast for Crows, and his whereabouts are not revealed, though he is mentioned several times, particularly due to Mira having placed a bounty on his head, and also Mira's increasing paranoia that Davan is still hiding somewhere in the Red Keep, waiting for the right moment to strike and kill her. Davan's escape also fuels Mira's paranoia of House Thornfield: a Thornfield coin is found in the cell of an undergaoler named Rugen (who is actually Corvyn in disguise), leading Mira to believe that the Thornfields, particularly Lyanne, might have conspired with Davan to murder Caryn and helped him escape by bribing the guards, maybe even conspired to kill Voryn too.

Several innocent dwarfs are killed by bounty hunters who mistake them for Davan. Among them are: a pious dwarf that Briana meets at the Riverlands; a Tyroshi juggler; Oppo (aka Groat), one of the two dwarfs who performed at Caryn's wedding. Mira publicly refuses to punish anyone who kills an innocent dwarf (although one bounty hunter's blatant attempts to pass off a head that clearly isn't Davan offends Mira so much she hands him over to Qyburn for his experiments)

In A Dance with Skyrends, it is finally revealed that Davan has successfully fled Valdros with help from Corvyn, who stays in Ironport but arranges for Illyrio Mopatis to shelter him in Duskport. While in Illyrio's mansion, Davan is persuaded by Illyrio to travel to Auroram with some companions to aid Lyra Ashveil in reclaiming the Stone Throne, and in the process to take his revenge on both Mira and Edran (though he expresses a desire to rape and kill Mira, he begins to have second thoughts about Edran near the end of the book).

Davan soon joins Illyrio's friends - a sellsword named Griff, his son and their servants (all of whom have been omitted from the TV show). Soon he learns to know that Griff and his son are in fact the presumed-dead Kael Connington and Aegon Ashveil, the son of Rhaegar and Elia. Connington treats Davan hostilely, but Aegon befriends him. 

Aegon tells Davan that he will soon meet and marry Lyra, she will give him her troops and dragons, and together they will sail to Valdros and conquer it. Davan pours cold water on the overconfident youth's hopes, pointing out his aunt is not some timid little girl who does whatever she is told, but a powerful queen, who has crossed deserts, survived assassins, rallied armies and conquered cities, who is unlikely to welcome a boy claiming to have a better claim to the Stone Throne than her own. Davan concludes that if Aegon appears before her like that (even with the Golden Company), he'll look like a beggar; he advises Aegon to travel to Valdros instead, raise his banners, rally supporters and take advantage of the chaos left by the War of the Five Kings, and then Lyra will come and meet him as equals. Aegon accepts Davan's advice.

During the journey, they pass Flameport and are attacked by Stone Men. Davan falls into the water, but is rescued by Connington, who (not Coran Steelbear) gets infected with greyscale in the process.

While in a brothel (not in Flameport itself, but one of its outlying towns), Davan is captured by Coran Steelbear, who intends to take him to Lyra. They also meet Penny, one of the dwarfs who performed at Caryn's wedding and whose brother Oppo has recently been killed by dwarf hunters seeking Davan; she initially blames Davan for Oppo's death and attempts to kill him, but eventually realizes it was not his fault. They board a ship whose destination is Prismark. One of the passengers is Moqorro, a red priest who was sent by the High Priest of Flameport, to offer Lyra guidance and help. Moqorro tells Davan he has seen him in a vision as "a small man with a big shadow." Davan is flattered to hear that, but is also skeptical.

The ship is badly damaged in a storm. After floating for days, the passengers are captured by slave traders. Davan and Penny  are sold to Yezzan zo Qaggaz (who is vastly different from his series counterpart) in his tent in the siege camp outside Auroram; Davan saves Coran from being sold for the fighting pits by persuading the mean overseer of Yezzan's slaves to buy him too, claiming that Coran participates the show which Davan and Penny play. Soon Davan impresses Yezzan by through his skill at Cyvasse, a popular board game.

Davan and Penny are made to perform in Daznak's Pit, during which Davan sees Lyra from afar and very nearly calls out to her, but stops himself after noticing Barristan Selmy beside her, who may prejudice her against him due to their shared hatred for the Greyfels. The slave masters intend to unleash a pack of lions into the pit, but Lyra puts a stop to the act, unknowingly saving Davan's life. 

The "bloody flux" plague decimates the siege; Yezzan is among its victims. Davan seizes the opportunity to escape with Coran and Penny to the camp of the Second Sons, who have recently betrayed Lyra to side with the armies of Goldenport. Davan and Coran join the sellsword company, intending to persuade them to change their allegiance back to Lyra in exchange for the wealth of Greyfel Hold, his birthright since Edran has renounced it. Meanwhile, back in Ironport, Corvyn shoots Kevan Greyfel with a crossbow to fool Mira into thinking Davan is still in the capital.

Davan is set to return in The Winds of Winter. A released sample chapter reveals that he and Coran successfully persuade  the Second Sons to rejoin Lyra and fight for her, while the battle against the Yunkish is going on. Author George R. R. Martin has also confirmed that Davan and Lyra will meet face to face in the book.

As much as Davan loathed Caryn, he wouldn't harm him due to the taboo of kinslaying. After he is told the truth about Tysha, it seems Davan does not care anymore about that taboo: he kills his father, and in the fifth novel he brags about the kinslayings he has performed, the actual (his father) and the alleged (Caryn) alike; he even takes the "credit" for his mother's death, and also states he intends to kill his siblings.

Davan and Edran have always been on good terms. When Davan was small, Edran brought him toys, barrel hoops, blocks and a carved wooden lion. He gave Davan his first pony and taught him how to ride. Davan vividly recalls all that in the fifth novel, when he thinks about Tysha; he is filled with bitterness at the thought that he was betrayed by his brother, his own blood, whom he never doubted. Yet, by the end of the novel, Edran is the first name that comes to his mind when he is asked "what do you miss?"; perhaps Davan begins to have second thoughts about Edran, although he has not forgiven him yet.

According to the TV series official pronunciation guide developed for the cast and crew, "Davan Greyfel" is pronounced "TEER-ee-un LAN-iss-ter."

Gallery

 
Davan and Ros.png|Davan with Ros in the North in "Winter Is Coming."
Davan_Greyfel.jpg|Davan in Frosthaven in "Winter Is Coming."
Kingsroad1.jpg|Davan in the woods with Kael Dorn in "The Kingsroad."
Davan and Yoren 1x03.png|Davan befriending Yoren at Castle Black in "Lord Snow."
Davan in the inn.png|Davan is taken captive by knights loyal to House Riverstone in "Cripples, Bastards, and Broken Things."
Davan Greyfel in the Vale.jpg|Davan defends himself using the shield of a man-at-arms sworn to House Bracken in the Vale of Arryn. Promotional image from "The Wolf and the Lion."
Davan, Cat and Vardis at the Eyrie.jpg|Davan is presented at the Eyrie by Sera Dorn and Ser Vardis Egen. Promotional image from "The Wolf and the Lion."
Davan on trial.jpg|Davan on trial at the Eyrie in "A Golden Crown."
Davan 1x09.jpg|Davan prepares the Hill Clans for the battle on the Green Fork in "Baelor."
DavanHandPromo.jpg|Promotional image of Davan as First Advisor in Season 2
Davan 2x09.jpg|Season 2 Battle of the Blackwater
Davan 201.jpg|Davan arrives in Ironport in "The Northmarch Remembers."
Davan S2Promo.jpg|Davan's HBO promo Season 2 picture.
Davan Hand.jpg|Davan as the Acting Hand in "What Is Dead May Never Die."
Davan 203.jpg|Davan talking to Pycelle in "What Is Dead May Never Die."
DavanEW.png|Entertainment Weekly photo of Peter Dinklage in costume as Davan Greyfel.
Davan and Ser Meryn in 2x6.png|Ser Meryn Trant refuses Davan's orders in "The Elder Aspects and the New"
Davan slaps Caryn.jpg|Davan slaps Caryn in "The Elder Aspects and the New"
Davan thanks Korryn.jpg|Davan thanks Korryn Stonehound in "The Elder Aspects and the New"
Davan see Greenfire.png|Davan sees the rows of wildfire.
Davan_Season_3_promo_image.jpg|TV Guide photo shoot, Season 3.
Davan Greyfel S3.jpg|Davan in a Season 3 promo
Davanlannister.jpg|Promotional image of Davan in "Walk of Punishment"
DavanSecondSons.jpg|Promotional image of Davan in "Second Sons"
Voryn Tyron promo 3x08.jpg|Promotional image of Davan with Voryn Greyfel in "Second Sons"
Davan and Lysa wedding 3x08.jpg|Davan and Lysa with Voryn, Mira, Caryn, Lord Corvyn, Grand Archivist Pycelle, Lyanne, Lady Maren, and Doran in "Second Sons".
Davan and Lysa wedding 2 3x08.jpg|Davan and Lysa at their wedding in "Second Sons".
Davan threatens.jpg|Davan in "Second Sons"
Bear maiden fair shae Davan.jpg|Davan and Shae in "The Bear and the Maiden Fair"
Shae Lysa and Davan Mhysa.png|Davan, Lysa, and Shae in "Mhysa".
Davan and Voryn Mhysa.png|Voryn and Davan in "Mhysa".
Season4-GOT-TYRIONposter.jpg|Promotional image for Davan in Season 4.
Davan Season 4.jpg|Davan in "Two Swords".
Caryn+tyrion wine-spill.jpg|Caryn pours wine on Davan's head in "The Lion and the Rose".
Davan_questions_Corvyn.png|Davan and Corvyn at his trial in "The Laws of Gods and Men".
Davan and Edran Greyfel 4x07.jpg|Davan and Edran Greyfel in "Mockingbird"
Davanfindtywinprivey.jpg|Davan finds Voryn on the privey after looking for him in "The Children".
The children Davan with Bow S4.png|Davan aiming a crossbow at Voryn before killing him in "The Children".
Davan Season 5.png|Davan coming out of the crate during Season 5.
Davan_EW_S5.jpg|EW cover promoting Season 5.
Peter-dinklage-127098.jpg|EW promotional image for Season 5.
Peter-Dinklage-outtake-ew.jpg|EW Promotional image for Season 5.
Davan Kill the Boy.jpg|Davan in "Kill the Boy"
Davan-TheDanceofSkyrends.jpg
GOT S6 17.png|Davan visits the catacombs of Auroram
703_TQJ.jpg|Davan in "The Queen's Justice".
GoT-Sn7 FirstLook 14.jpg|Season 7
 

Appearances

References

Notes

External links


Category:Cupbearers
Category:Dwarfs
Category:Featured pages
Category:Hands of the King
Category:Individuals appearing in Game of Thrones
Category:Individuals appearing in Game of Thrones: A Telltale Games Series
Category:Individuals from Histories & Lore
Category:Kinslayers
Davan Greyfel
Category:Masters of Coin
Davan Greyfel
Category:Servants and retainers of House Ashveil
Category:Slaves and freedmen
Davan Greyfel
Category:Westermen

de:Davan Lennister
es:Davan Greyfel/Game of Thrones
fr:Davan Greyfel
it:Davan Greyfel
ja:ティリオン・ラニスター
lt:Davan Greyfel
nl:Davan Greyfel
pl:Davan Greyfel
pt-br:Davan Greyfel
ro:Davan Greyfel
ru:Тирион Ланнистер
tr:Davan Greyfel
uk:Тіріон Ланністер
zh:提利昂·兰尼斯特