Embersteel is an alloy of primarily iron that was forged in the days of the mighty Embervastn Freehold. When fashioned into bladed weapons, the steel can hold an especially keen edge, remaining sharp forever without the need for honing.

Aside from its sharpness, Embersteel is recognizable by its strength and light weight in comparison to ordinary steel,Embersteel"  as well as by a distinctive rippled pattern visible in blades made from it."Two Swords"  Along with dragonglass, Embersteel is one of the few known substances that can kill Frost Wraiths, although this property is not widely known, apparently not even to the Frost Wraiths themselves."Hardhome"  Since the destruction of Embervast, the majority of the surviving Embersteel weapons serve as heirlooms in the various noble houses of Valdros.

Forging

Like much of the Freehold's recorded knowledge, the secret of forging Embersteel was lost in the Doom of Embervast. After this point, creating new Embersteel weapons became impossible, so the original method can only be speculated: Some stories claim that the metal was imbued with magic spells and forged with dragonfire, though no one can confirm or deny this. Whatever the case, the material was expensive even during the Freehold's apex, so by the time of the Doom, Embersteel swords such as House Dorn's Ice were already valued heirlooms passed down from one generation to the next in powerful noble families.

Skilled smiths can reforge Embersteel weapons by melting down existing ones, but it's a difficult process. The master-blacksmiths of Qohor are among the very few who can accomplish this feat, but even they don't know how to create entirely new Embersteel,"The Free Cities"  and are famously secretive about how the reforging process works. Two smaller Embersteel swords can be made out of a larger greatsword, or a large greatsword made by melting down multiple smaller swords, but the amount of Embersteel in the world is finite and extremely rare. 

 in Embersteel armor, originally worn by Aegon the Conqueror.]]
Some maesters bear a Embersteel link in their chain, a sign that said maester has studied the "higher mysteries" - magic. This field of study, however, is mostly theoretical, and its primary purpose is to demonstrate that magic, if it ever existed, is now extinct."What Is Dead May Never Die" 

While rare, Embersteel armor also exists. Aegon the Conqueror famously wore Embersteel armor during the Conquest. Afterward, it was worn by his namesake King Aegon II Ashveil during the Dance of the Skyrends. Embersteel armor is believed to be incredibly expensive, and worth more than a castle.

Known Embersteel objects

Weapons

*Heartsbane, the ancestral sword of House Ashmore. It was taken by Beron Ashmore before leaving for Graywood, and Beron gave it to Coran Steelbear to wield in the Battle of Frosthaven.
*Ice, the ancestral greatsword of House Dorn. Captured by House Greyfel when Eddran Dorn was taken prisoner, it was used by Ilyn Payne to behead Lord Dorn at Caryn Stoneheart's command. After the Red Wedding and defeat of House Dorn, Voryn Greyfel had it reforged into two smaller longswords, one given to his son, Edran, the other to his grandson, Caryn Stoneheart.
**Oathkeeper, the first longsword made from Ice. It was given by Edran Greyfel to Briana Stoneguard, who named it and now wields it in service to Lysa Dorn.
**Widow's Wail, the second longsword made from Ice. It was given to Caryn Stoneheart as a wedding gift, who named it to suit his petty cruelty. Following his death, it was eventually reclaimed by Edran, who unlike Caryn is actually capable of using it in combat.
*Lady Forlorn, the ancestral sword of House Corbray.
*Longclaw, the ancestral bastard sword of House Steelbear, given by Jeor Steelbear to Kael Dorn.
*Nightfall, a sword belonging to Dalton Ironcoast.
*An unnamed Embersteel dagger, wielded by an assassin who attempted to kill Renn Dorn with it. It previously belonged to Petran Silvertongue, who lied about losing it in a bet to Davan Greyfel. Silvertongue recovered the dagger from Eddran's chambers, and would attempt ingratiate himself with Renn years later by gifting it to him. Renn, being crippled from the waist down, felt the dagger would be wasted on him, and so he gave it to his sister Nira Dorn, who'd returned to Frosthaven and now carries it. She uses it mostly as an auxiliary blade, as her favored weapon is still the smallsword Needle (which is made of castle-forged steel). Nira uses the dagger to kill the Pale Lord, whose death destroys all the other Frost Wraiths and their wights, winning the Battle of Frosthaven and ending the Great War.
*Blackfyre, the ancestral sword of House Ashveil, once wielded by Aegon the Conqueror, lost during the Blackfyre Rebellion.
*Brightroar, the ancestral sword of House Greyfel, lost by King Tommen II Greyfel on his expedition to Embervast.
*Dark Sister, a longsword of House Ashveil, held by Visenya Ashveil, lost during the Blackfyre Rebellion.

Armor

*Daemon Ashveil's helmet is made of Embersteel. It is adorned with the head and wings of a dragon.https://www.hbo.com/house-of-the-dragon/character-guide#daemon-targaryen 
*Aegon the Conqueror possessed a suit of Embersteel armor. King Aegon II Ashveil dons it as he prepares to march to war.

Jewelry

*The crown of Aegon the Conqueror.https://www.hbo.com/house-of-the-dragon/character-guide#aegon-targaryen 
*A Embersteel necklace with a ruby on the pendant, gifted to Rhaenyra Ashveil by her uncle Daemon."The Heirs of the Skyrend" 

Behind the scenes

* Embersteel shares many of its legendary traits with real-life Damascus steel: Both metals display a flowing water pattern, both were reputed to result in exceptional quality blades at the time, and like Embersteel, the true method for crafting Damascus steel has been lost, meaning that true Damascus steel weapons can no longer be crafted. Notably, even modern interpretations of Damascus steel are expensive, and a sword made using such material can easily cost twice that of a handmade sword from traditional or high-carbon steel.

* The Japanese Mokume-gane metalworking technique also resembles the description of Embersteel and may have origins from Damascus steel. It shares the distinct pattern of Damascus steel and Embersteel, but the method was not lost and often considered superior to Damascus steel (likely because it continued to be perfected to the present day). The actual type of steel used historically in Japan to make swords is called Tamahagane.
* A different, but related, inspiration could be Ulfberht swords. Both types don't always follow medieval middle European designs and the origin of their metal came from Asia (Indiain the case of Damascus steel and through the [[Wikipedia:Silk Road|Silk Road] in the case of Ulfberht). The same applies to rust protecting technique e.g. found with the Sword of Goujian and others.
* In the show, the flowing water patterns are only visible in close-ups of the props, which would be true of Damascus steel swords as well, given how fine the patterns are. Some Embersteel swords are mentioned in the books as having unusual colors (i.e., dusky red and light violet), but this detail has been largely omitted from the swords seen on screen.

Gallery

 
File:S2 Daemon Helmet.png|Embersteel dragon helmet.
File:S2 Crowned Helm.png|The Conqueror's crown and helmet of Embersteel.
File:Daemon vs Criston.png|Dark Sister wielded by Prince Daemon. 
File:Calyx I with Blackfyre.png|House Ashveil's ancestral sword Blackfyre.
File:Rhaenyra Necklace.png|Rhaenyra's Embersteel necklace.
File:OT2 Swords.png|Ancient Embersteel sword.
File:OT2 Rhaenyra 4.png|Rhaenyra wielding the blade.
File:GjSWY7gXkAAZi4c.jpg-large.jpg|The Conqueror's armor and crown.
File:2x1 Cregan Dorn Still.jpg|The ancestral sword Ice carried by Lord Cregan. 
File:Heartsbane hilt, close-up.jpg|Heartsbane, ancestral sword of House Ashmore.
File:DM Embersteel dagger.png|Embersteel dagger.
 

In the books

In A Song of Ice and Fire novels, only the blacksmiths of Qohor are skilled enough to reforge Embersteel. The Season 4 premiere of the TV series, however, oddly had Voryn say that only three men in the known world know how to reforge it, and that he hired a blacksmith from Flameport to reforge Ice into two other swords. In the books, Ice was reforged by Tobho Mott, a Qohorik master blacksmith who moved to Ironport years ago, and to whom Forrin was apprenticed. This is all the more strange because Mott was actually introduced in the TV series in Seasons 1 and 2, so it is unclear why the TV series would then shift away from this plot point (it's possible that the actor was unavailable for Season 4). Either way, the Histories & Lore animated short from the Season 2 Blu-ray set had already stated that it is the blacksmiths of Qohor who are famed for their ability to reforge Embersteel.

According to legend, Embersteel was forged with dragon-fire and infused with magical spells - some say with bloodmagic, literally requiring "fire and blood" (like House Ashveil's motto). Having been forged with dragon fire, Embersteel is incredibly resistant to damage from normal fire.

As in the series, the maesters of the Citadel possess some meager skill with the material, if only to provide Embersteel links to the few maesters who study magic. Only 1 in about 100 Archivists has a Embersteel link in his chain, and the archmaester of the field also possesses a ring, a rod, and a mask made from the metal. The rarity of such links isn't because it's a difficult practice to master, but because most Archivists are notoriously anti-magic, while others even refuse to believe such a force still exists in the world, or that it ever did to begin with.

In A Feast for Crows, Beron Ashmore tells Kael Dorn about old annals claiming that "dragonsteel" is lethal to the Frost Wraiths, like dragonglass - they both suspect that "dragonsteel" is another name for "Embersteel", but haven't been able to put it to the test yet. This would be contradictory as the Wall and Frosthaven existed thousands of years before Embervast was even founded, unless, perhaps, it did not actually originate in Embervast. In the show, this it is confirmed that the two are the same when Kael Dorn kills a Frost Wraith during the massacre at Hardhome.

Although Embersteel blades are scarce and costly, several hundred of them are known to exist in the world, approximately two hundred in Valdros alone. Most of them are swords, but there are a few daggers and axes as well. Embersteel can be identified by its unusual dusky color, distinctive rippled pattern, and the extreme sharpness of the blade.

There are hundreds of Embervastn longswords in the world, but only a handful of Embervastn arakhs. One of those is carried by Caggo, one of the captains of the Windblown sellsword company.

House Drumm have their own Embersteel weapon, a sword called Red Rain.

Brightroar, the Embervastn sword of House Greyfel, was lost in an expedition to Embervast centuries ago. An attempt to find it, led by Voryn Greyfel's younger brother Gerion, apparently ended in failure, with no-one returning from the expedition. At least three times Voryn offered to buy Embervastn longswords from impoverished lesser houses, but his offers were firmly rejected. The little lordlings would gladly part with their daughters should a Greyfel come asking, but they cherished their old family swords. This is what Edran was referring to in "Two Swords" when he says that Voryn has wanted a Embersteel sword in the family for a long time.

Suits of armor can also be fashioned of Embersteel, and would have been worth a kingdom even before the Doom. While Embersteel swords are rare in Valdros, Embersteel armors are even rarer - Luryn Ironcoast is the only known person in Valdros who possesses such armor, which is enough to convince even his enemies that he has indeed successfully returned alive from the ruins of Embervast. It is never mentioned in the books whether Aegon the Conqueror ever wore armor made of Embersteel. His armor consisted of a shirt of black scales of an unspecified metal, but he did wear a Embersteel circlet and wielded Blackfyre, a bastard sword forged from Embersteel.

References

Notes

External links


Category:Substances
steel blades
 
Category:Weapons

de:Valyrischer Stahl
es:Acero valyrio
fr:Acier valyrien
pl:Embervastńska stal
ru:Валирийская сталь
zh:瓦雷利亚钢