Corvyn, popularly known as the Spider, was the eunuch Master of Whisperers on the Stoneheart Inner Council until he was forced to flee Ironport with Davan Greyfel. He was a skilled manipulator and commanded a network of informants across two continents.  

Although he feigned support for her assassination while serving under King Harald Stoneheart, Corvyn's true loyalties were eventually revealed to be to Lyra Ashveil (though she herself is initially unaware of this), as he believed her rule would be the best way to preserve peace and prosperity in the Seven Domains. He and Davan travelled to Auroram, and despite being separated in Flameport, the two eventually joined Lyra's Inner Council, ruling in her name following her disappearance. Shortly before the second siege of Auroram, Corvyn returned to Valdros, rallying House Thornfield of the Reach and the Sand Snakes of Sunreach for Lyra's cause against House Greyfel.   

He later joined the Ashveil forces on Lyra's birthplace, Ashveil Isle. Despite the loss of the two allies he had recruited during the Last War, he continued to serve Lyra as her Master of Whisperers during the Great War and her final campaign for the Stone Throne. However, later he became concerned that she had inherited her father's insanity; believing that Kael Dorn would be the superior leader, Corvyn plotted to undermine Lyra's claim. Fulfilling her promise to execute those who conspired against her, Lyra executed Corvyn upon learning of his treachery.

Biography

Background

Corvyn was born across the Narrow Sea in Lys. He was born a slave, and as a child he traveled with a troupe of actors all around the different Free Cities until a sorcerer in the city of Myr made an offer Corvyn's master couldn't refuse. Corvyn was sold to the sorcerer. Corvyn believed that the man would sexually abuse him, but what the sorcerer wanted was, in Corvyn's eyes, worse: he gave him a potion that made him unable to move or speak but didn't dull his perceptions or sense of pain, and emasculated him (cutting off his testes and penis both) so he could use his sexual organs in a magical ritual, burning them in a brazier. When the sorcerer had thrown Corvyn's genitals in the brazier, the fire turned blue, the sorcerer called and a voice replied back. Afterward, the sorcerer had no more use for Corvyn and threw him in the streets to die. Instead, Corvyn resolved to live no matter what: begging, stealing, and selling the sexual use of what parts remained to him, doing anything to survive. He also became an excellent thief, but soon learned that stolen information was often a far more valuable commodity than any physical goods, and he worked his way up from the slums of Myr. He later started a pick-pocketing business with Illyrio Mopatis, who at that time was a bravo who lived by the sword. Corvyn eventually founded a group of spies that he called his "little birds." He became a master spy and information trafficker, and his influence and reputation grew so great that he eventually found himself as a member of the Inner Council in the Seven Domains. He became one of the chief advisers to Aerys II Ashveil, who at that time, did not trust his wife Rhaella Ashveil, his son Rhaegar Ashveil or his First Advisor Voryn Greyfel. His experience at the hands of the sorcerer had also left him with a bitter hatred for all forms of magic and its practitioners.

As a member of the King's Inner Council, he serves as the Master of Whisperers, the King's foremost spymaster and intelligence agent. He holds no inherited title, castle, or lands in Valdros, but is called "Lord" as a courtesy due to his position on the council, which traditionally is made up of high lords.HBO viewers guide, season 2 guide to houses, House Stoneheart of Ironport - Corvyn entry 

When the Mad King arrested Renndon Dorn for threatening Prince Rhaegar, Corvyn and the rest of the Inner Council urged the King to pardon Renndon on the grounds that he was the heir to Frosthaven and the Prince had abducted his sister. However, the King refused to heed their advice and had both Renndon and his father brutally executed. This led to a rebellion that ultimately toppled the Ashveil dynasty.

When Voryn arrived at Ironport with the entire Greyfel army at his back, professing loyalty to his beleaguered King after the rebels resounding victory at the Battle of the Trident, Corvyn warned Aerys not to open the gates, as did Voryn's own son in the Stone Throne Guard, Edran Greyfel. However, Grand Archivist Pycelle told Aerys what he wanted to hear: that he could trust Lord Voryn. So Aerys opened the gates and Voryn sacked the city, and Edran wound up stabbing Aerys in the back.

Despite his previous loyalty to the Ashveils, Corvyn was pardoned by the new King Harald Stoneheart and allowed to keep his position on the Inner Council under the advice of his Hand, Kael Arryn.

Corvyn is bald, soft, and fat, due to his castration. He often puts on the public persona of being nothing more than a pudgy man well suited to the pleasantries of court life; humble, obsequious, fawning, and a little effeminate. This is simply a facade that Corvyn has developed, which often leads those who do not know him well to underestimate him as a cheerful and vapid flatterer. In reality he is a cunning and ruthless manipulator of court politics, on-par with Master of Coin Petran "Silvertongue" Silvertongue, with whom he frequently spars. Unlike Silvertongue, Corvyn insists that his goals are to achieve what he honestly feels is best for the realm, though of course, what he and the current ruler feel is best might be two separate things.

However, despite his ruthlessness and skill at court politics, Corvyn does not seek power for his own personal ends, but for the good of the common people in both Valdros and Aravel. Thus, his loyalty to a monarch depends on how beneficial that monarch is to their subjects; in Season 7 he bluntly remarked to Lyra that "Incompetence should not be rewarded with blind loyalty", indicating that, in his eyes, neither her father nor Harald Stoneheart were deserving of his services because they were poor rulers. Corvyn has a genuinely compassionate side, especially where children are concerned (even the children of his opponents). He once sadly remarked to Eddran Dorn that "it's always the innocents who suffer", and told Vala that he has never harmed or sought to harm a child, as he considers them blameless. During the Battle of Frosthaven when the dead began to stir in the crypts, he led a group of children into a shadowed alcove, trying to keep them safe and hidden from the wights.

He is known as "The Weave" due to his vast web of intelligence sources. His sophisticated intelligence network - one of the largest in the world - spans both Valdros and Aravel, as far as Vaes Dothrak and even Prismark. He refers to his agents and sources of information, many of which are low-born children, as his "little birds." Unlike Silvertongue, however, Corvyn is not indifferent or cruel towards his employees; he educates them, gives them sweets and provides them with protection in return for the information they bring him.

One of his jobs was to keep an eye on the movements of the Mad King's surviving heirs, Calyx and Lyra Ashveil, and ensure they do not become a threat to King Harald's reign.

Game of Thrones: Season 1

When Kael Arryn dies unexpectedly, causing King Harald Stoneheart to ride north with the intention of asking Eddran Dorn to replace him, the Inner Council are left to run the kingdoms in his absence. Eddran is summoned to the Inner Council upon his arrival in Ironport. Corvyn greets him as he enters, telling him that the council members heard about his "troubles on the Kingsroad" and that they pray for Caryn's recovery. Eddran curtly responds, "A shame you didn't say a prayer for the butcher's son", which disconcerts Corvyn. During Eddran's first meeting he learns that Harald has ordered a tournament to honor his appointment and that the realm has descended into debt.

Corvyn provides Petran "Silvertongue" Silvertongue with intelligence that Sera Dorn is traveling to the city incognito. She brings news of an assassin being sent to kill her son Renn. They meet with Sera and attempt to identify the dagger used by the catspaw. Corvyn, who admits that he does not known who owns the dagger, nor who sent the assassin is surprised when Silvertongue says that he lost the dagger in a wager to Davan Greyfel. Unknown to Corvyn, this was another ploy created by Silvertongue to create further conflict between the Dorns and the Greyfels.

Corvyn joins the rest of the Inner Council to discuss the rise in crime in the city as a result of the tournament. He is concerned about the capacity of the City Watch to cope. In a private meeting with Eddran, Grand Archivist Pycelle implies that Corvyn was involved with Kael Arryn's death, poison being a favored weapon of eunuchs.

Corvyn meets with Eddran Dorn and frankly tells him that King Harald is a fool and likely doomed unless Eddran can save him. He confirms that Kael Arryn was murdered with a poison called the Tears of Lys and implicates the deceased Ser Hugh of the Vale in the murder, though he is unable to pinpoint who ordered the killing. He claims to be a man of honor, like Eddran, who only wants to keep the realm stable and at peace.

In the passages under the Red Keep, Corvyn meets with his ally, Illyrio, the man who secretly harbored the last remaining Ashveil heirs, Calyx and Lyra, and arranged the wedding of the latter to Vorgath. Corvyn informs Illyrio of how the new First Advisor, Eddran Dorn, now has the same genealogy book that his predecessor read, and has met Harald's bastard son Forrin; the same evidence which led Kael Arryn to discover the truth about Queen Mira's children. Illyrio suggests the possibility that the same fate may befall Lord Dorn as did his predecessor, but Corvyn states Eddran Dorn is not the same man as Arryn was. Furthermore, he assures Illyrio that the conflict between the Greyfels and the Dorns will soon escalate into a civil war. Illyrio protests that a war will not serve their purpose right now, since Vorgath is not yet ready to send his army of Kolvari to invade Valdros for Calyx, thus reviving the Ashveil Dynasty. However, Corvyn protests there is no way of delaying the incoming conflict, so the Kolvari must be urged to move faster, since "this is no longer a game for two players." Illyrio replies that it never was. Their discussion is overheard by Nira Dorn, who is with them in the tunnels under the Red Keep. Nira tries to warn her father about what she heard, but she doesn't know who the speakers were, and out of context, all she understood was that her father has "found the bastard", that "the wolves are fighting the lions", and "something about the savage." Despite Corvyn's meeting with Illyrio, later at a Inner Council meeting he seemingly supports King Harald's proposal to assassinate Lyra Ashveil.

Corvyn has a tense confrontation with Silvertongue. Corvyn reminds Silvertongue of the incriminating information he holds: Corvyn knows of the illegalities going on in Silvertongue's brothels and his implication of Davan in the attempted murder of Renn. In turn, Silvertongue reveals he knows that Corvyn met with Illyrio for some reason kept secret from the king and council.

Corvyn is present when Eddran is arrested for treason after delivering Harald's proclamation naming him protector of the realm. Corvyn visits Eddran in the dungeons. He is incredulous that Eddran trusted Silvertongue over him, and even more so that he warned Mira what he was going to do. Eddran says that he wanted to extend mercy to Mira's children, whom Harald would have killed if he'd known the truth. Corvyn bluntly tells Eddran that his mercy is what killed King Harald, to Eddran's shame. He also informs him that all of his household servants have been slaughtered, and his daughter Lysa taken prisoner, though he also informs him (truthfully) that his younger daughter Nira managed to escape the Red Keep, and not even his own spies can locate her. Eddran tries to castigate Corvyn for abandoning him when the City Watch and Silvertongue betrayed him, to which Corvyn asks what exactly he was meant to do, unarmed and unarmored, against a throne room filled with Mira's loyalists. Corvyn then tells him that Sera also no longer holds Davan as her prisoner, meaning that the Dorns have nothing to barter with for Eddran's life. When Eddran suggests that Corvyn should just kill him, Corvyn says, "Not today, my lord." As he departs, Eddran asks Corvyn who he truly serves. Corvyn, in a rare display of honesty, replies, "The realm, my lord. Someone must."

Corvyn is present at the throne room when Ser Barristan Selmy is dismissed from his post as High Warden of the Stone Throne Guard on the grounds of his old age and failure to protect Harald. When Barristan insults his successor to the post, Ser Edran Greyfel, Corvyn tries to defuse the angry mood by saying Barristan will be offered land and a castle in recognition for his loyal service; Selmy, however, is offended rather than appeased by the offer, considering it an insult, and storms from the throne room after insulting King Caryn and his former Stone Throne Guard brethren. Corvyn is also a witness to Lysa pleading for her father's life to be spared.

Corvyn returns to Eddran in his cell and informs him that Lysa appeared before the King to plead for his life. He tells him that Aldric has called up an army and is marching them south. The situations of Eddran and those he cares about are precarious, but Eddran could help everyone and calm the realm if he confesses. Corvyn thinks that Eddran, himself, may be spared if he will acknowledge the legitimacy of King Caryn Stoneheart. Eddran refuses, saying that he cares more for his honor than for his life. Corvyn changes his mind by reminding him that continued defiance could endanger Lysa. Corvyn is present at Eddran's trial outside the Great Sept of Baelor. The onlookers are stunned when Caryn orders Eddran's public execution despite his confession. Corvyn, Mira, and the Council try to intervene, but can only watch as Eddran is beheaded in front of a horrified Lysa and the jeering crowd. As Eddran's headless body is dragged away, Corvyn stares at the ground, clearly disgusted by the spectacle, and later runs to aid Lysa as she faints from shock.

Corvyn is present in Caryn's court when the king sentences the singer Marillion to be maimed for mocking the royal family. Voryn distrusts Corvyn, telling Davan to execute him, Pycelle, or Silvertongue on "even a whiff of treason." Corvyn finds Silvertongue in the empty throne room once again, and teases him by asking him how he would proceed if he sat on the Stone Throne. The two rivals compare the different means, by which they both rose from humble backgrounds to become feared and powerful, expressing mutual admiration for each others' cunning.

Game of Thrones: Season 2

Corvyn continues to serve King Caryn Stoneheart. Queen Regent, Mira Greyfel, orders the city closed to refugees from the War of the Five Kings. She is furious when her brother, Davan Greyfel, is made acting First Advisor by their father Lord Voryn Greyfel. Corvyn discovers that Davan has brought his lover Shae with him, despite being instructed not to by Voryn. Corvyn lets Davan know that he is aware but will keep Davan's secrets; Davan warns Corvyn not to threaten him or he'll have him disposed of. To this, Corvyn points out that he has survived the fall of many kings in his current position of power (due to his usefulness), and therefore Davan should not be threatening him.

Davan involves an unwitting Corvyn in a plot to test the loyalty of the Inner Council. He gives each member a different version of a marriage alliance involving Myrcella Stoneheart and waits to see who will reveal the information to Mira. Pycelle exposes himself as Mira's man and Davan has him arrested. Corvyn compliments him on the scheme afterwards, remarking that "a very small man can cast a large shadow." He later assists Davan in installing Shae as a handmaiden to the captive Lysa Dorn.

Corvyn helps Davan to plan the defense of Ironport against an impending attack by King Orin Stoneheart. After both of them privately disparage Caryn, Corvyn compliments Davan on his ability to play "the Game" and his effectiveness as Hand. He then tells Davan that Lyra Ashveil lives and has hatched three dragons; he ominously remarks that when they are grown, her enemies (including them) will have nowhere to hide. Davan prefers to focus on the problem at hand, remarking, "One Game at a time, my friend."

Corvyn provides Davan with a map of the tunnel network under the city. He warns Davan that their success depends on his leadership. He relays rumors of Orin's conversion to the Lord of Radiance and tells Davan that he despises the dark arts practiced by Orin's adviser Seraphel. The Battle of the Blackwater is won, thanks to Davan's ingenious defensive tactics and the timely arrival of a host of House Greyfel and House Thornfield cavalry under the command of Voryn and Ser Doran Thornfield. Davan is betrayed and wounded by Ser Mandon Moore during the fighting. Corvyn attends court as Caryn rewards Voryn, Doran, and Silvertongue for their service. Corvyn visits the recuperating Davan and sadly informs him that his father is being given all of the credit for the victory and that he has relieved Davan as First Advisor, that the members of the hill tribes have been paid and sent back to the Vale. and that Sharyn has been removed from command of the City Watch.

He also suggests that Queen Mira was responsible for Ser Mandon's treachery and leaves Davan alone with Shae. Corvyn also approaches Ros, though she doesn't realize who he is until she discovers his eunuch status. He gets Ros to admit she's afraid of Silvertongue, and tells her that unlike her current employer, he protects those who work for him and recruits her as a spy in Silvertongue's brothel.

Game of Thrones: Season 3

Voryn Greyfel calls the first meeting of the Inner Council since he arrived in the city and assumes his position as First Advisor. He has the meeting place changed to a room next to his own quarters, asserting his dominance. Voryn arrives early and has all of the council members called in at once, with seats on only one side of the table, as a non-verbal test to see how each of them reacts around him. Petran Silvertongue ambitiously pushes his way past everyone else to be the one who sits closest to Voryn. Corvyn rolls his eyes at Silvertongue's assertiveness and lets him pass, content to sit in the second-closest seat.

Voryn is upset with the three advisors, noting that between them, they possess the greatest number of spies in the world, yet none of them can locate his son Edran, even though the entire Northern army has heard of his escape. Corvyn says they are trying but he simply cannot be found. Voryn asks what news there is of the war, and Corvyn reports that Aldric has taken the bulk of his army to Riverrun for his grandfather's funeral, while leaving Lord Aldric Craven in command of Harenvast. Corvyn makes a jab at Silvertongue's recent, titular promotion as Lord of Harenvast, as being singularly titular.

Davan meets with Corvyn, who is in the middle of prying open a large wooden crate. Davan asks Corvyn to help him confirm who sent Ser Mandon Moore to kill him during the Battle of the Blackwater. Corvyn says he would like to help, but the most can provide are whispers, and no proof as to who gave the order. Davan wants to know with certainty if it was his sister so he can take revenge. Corvyn uses this opportunity to finish a conversation they were having on the eve of the battle, in which Corvyn promised to reveal how he was castrated. Corvyn says that he used to be a slave in a traveling troupe that passed through all of the Free Cities, but once when he was in Myr he was sold to a sorcerer. The sorcerer gave him a potion which temporarily paralyzed him while still leaving him fully aware and able to experience pain, and then he cut his genitals off, root and stem. The sorcerer needed his genitals as a sacrifice for a spell, and he burned Corvyn' genitals in a brazier of fire. What Corvyn has had recurrent nightmares about to this day is not the sorcerer, or the knife, or the pain...but that when the sorcerer prayed to the blue flames in his ceremony, a voice clearly answered him from the flames. Whether it was a god or a demon or simply parlor tricks Corvyn never knew, as the sorcerer threw him out into the street to die. But he was determined to live, to spite the sorcerer, and one day get his revenge on him. Corvyn did whatever it took to claw his way up into a position of influence in the world.

At first, to survive, Corvyn would beg, steal, or sell the sexual use of the parts of his body he still had. Increasingly, he discovered that stealing men's secrets was far more profitable than anything physical which could be stolen, and in time, he worked his way up from the slums of Myr to the Inner Council in Ironport. This is why Corvyn has always hated those who claim to wield magical powers, and particularly why he opposed Orin Stoneheart, who relies on the red priestess Seraphel. As Corvyn finishes his tale, he finally finishes prying the last nail out of the crate and opens it - revealing none other than the elderly sorcerer, the same one that castrated Corvyn so many years ago. He is still alive but gagged, and was shipped to Corvyn in the crate. Using his own life as an example, Corvyn thus urges Davan to be patient, and his revenge will come to him in time. Corvyn then closes the lid of the box again, with the sorcerer still inside.

Corvyn then visits Ros, who has been secretly spying on Silvertongue for him. He is surprised to hear her report from the other prostitutes in the brothel on the prodigious activities of one Patrin Blade. Corvyn is perplexed as to what exactly happened; Ros says the girls told her he wasn't particularly large or anything, so much as what he did. When she repeatedly asked them what exactly that was, the most they could say is that it was "hard to describe." She then reports on how frequently Silvertongue has visited Lysa Dorn, and says she thinks he is obsessed with her, and wants to smuggle her out of the city. He asks why she thinks this is true, and she presents a stolen copy of the ship's manifest for the boat that will take Silvertongue to the Vale. Corvyn is surprised that Ros is literate and asks what obvious point it is that he doesn't see. She points out that the manifest specifies that there will be two feather beds, and Corvyn realizes Silvertongue would only pay the extra money for someone other than himself if it was Lysa.

Corvyn meets with Maren Thornfield. They walk through the gardens, and while Maren remains pleasant she instantly sees through all of Corvyn's pleasantries. Corvyn is verbally outmatched, for once, and she asks him to just get to the point. He says that he is extremely worried that Silvertongue is going to try to take control of Lysa Dorn since Aldric Dorn's younger brothers are presumed dead at Frosthaven, and Nira Dorn has been missing and presumed dead for over a year: Lysa is Aldric's legal heir. The War of the Five Kings is not going well for the Dorns now, and if Aldric were to be defeated and die, the man who marries Lysa controls the North. Corvyn adds that while he enjoys verbally sparring with Silvertongue, he is truly horrified by the man. While they are all engaged in the intrigues and murders of court politics, Silvertongue has utterly no limits on what he will do to achieve power: he would burn the entire realm down if it meant he could be king of the ashes. Maren agrees and says that the solution is rather obvious.

He talks with Silvertongue in the Great Hall about the Stone Throne, and Silvertongue's belief is that the realm is a fiction. Corvyn says that without it there would be chaos, which he characterizes as a pit. Silvertongue disagrees, saying it is a ladder that few are willing to climb. He reveals that he knew of Ros's agreement with Corvyn to spy on him, and so gave her to Caryn, who murdered her.

Corvyn is a guest at the wedding of Lysa Dorn and Davan Greyfel. He stands with the rest of the Inner Council near the feet of the Father's statue. Corvyn later attends the wedding feast and can be seen speaking with Lysa as Davan has another confrontation with Voryn.

Corvyn is later present when the Inner Council discusses the Red Wedding. He doesn't bother to hide his disgust when Caryn announces his intention to serve Aldric Dorn's severed head to Lysa at his wedding. He also looks visibly nervous when Caryn lashes out at Voryn and accuses him of hiding in Greyfel Hold while Harald Stoneheart did all the real work in the War of the Usurper. Later that day, Corvyn seeks out Shae and tells her that Davan is the last hope for the current regime, but Shae is a liability that Davan and the realm cannot afford. He offers her a pouch of diamonds with which to start a new life in the Free Cities, but she declines.

Game of Thrones: Season 4

Corvyn meets Davan on the way to Caryn's breakfast, warning him that Mira knows about Shae, and that Davan urgently needs to get her away from Ironport. Unable to persuade Shae of the danger she is in, Davan requests Corvyn lie to save her, but he refuses; reminding Davan that Voryn never makes idle threats, making it too dangerous even for a member of the Inner Council. Corvyn is at Caryn's wedding feast and is disgusted with Caryn's entertainment. When Patrin Blade visits Davan, Davan asks if Corvyn will vouch for him, but Pod reveals that Corvyn has already been called as a witness for Mira. Corvyn is present during Tommen's coronation and bows to the King himself along with Pycelle and other Lords and Ladies.

Corvyn attends a Inner Council meeting and informs the council about Korryn Stonehound being spotted in the Riverlands killing Greyfel men. Voryn asks what could they do to make a common soldier kill the Hound, Corvyn replies by paying them silver. Corvyn then tells them about Lyra and her army, her dragons, and her rule over Auroram. Mira says it doesn't matter because they're just babies but Corvyn tells her that they are not babies anymore. Corvyn also mentions that Coran Steelbear and Barristan Selmy joined her cause and Coran is no longer spying for Corvyn. Voryn asks if Corvyn can get a spy in Auroram, and he replies that he can.

Right after the meeting, Corvyn and Solvan Sundagger meet in the throne room and talk about Solvan's travels to Aravel, and Solvan asks how Corvyn came to the situation he is in. Corvyn says that it is a long story that he only tells to people he trusts (referring to Davan); they then talk about Corvyn before he was cut. Corvyn says he never was interested in sexual pleasures because desire destroys men so that they can't set out for other goals. He turns and looks at the throne as he leaves, leaving Solvan confused.

At Davan's trial, Corvyn testifies against Davan, giving evidence of what he said to Caryn after the Red Wedding. As Corvyn leaves the stand, Davan asks if he can ask Corvyn a question. He is allowed, and he reminds Corvyn of what he said to Davan after the Blackwater, then asks him if he forgot about what he said. Corvyn looks at Davan sadly (implying that he didn't want to testify against his friend) and replies that he never forgets. Corvyn is present during Davan's trial by combat and witnesses Solvan's gruesome death at the hands of Gorran Stonehound.

Corvyn helps Edran Greyfel free Davan from imprisonment and flee to Aravel. Corvyn waits for Davan to seek him as Edran had told him to do, only for Davan not to come straight away and to show up later with his face covered in blood. Corvyn suspects Davan has done something terrible, but places him in a crate, which is then loaded onto a ship. Corvyn hears the bells being tolled from the Red Keep, and decides to leave with Davan.

Game of Thrones: Season 5

Following their escape from Ironport, Corvyn and Davan arrive at the manse of Illyrio Mopatis in Duskport. It is here that Corvyn reveals his true allegiance to House Ashveil and how he hopes that restoring Lyra Ashveil to the Stone Throne will save Valdros from itself. However, Davan, miserable from his escape experience, is mainly interested in drinking himself to death.

Later, the two meet again, and Davan asks why he set him free. Corvyn simply states that Edran asked him to and it would have been dangerous to say no to the Kingslayer. Davan still wonders why Corvyn risked so much in order to free him. Corvyn once again states that he did it for the Seven Domains. Davan believes that the Seven Domains is a lost cause at this point, as the powerful will always prey on the powerless. Corvyn believes that they have grown so accustomed the horrors that they know nothing else, but believes that restoring Lyra Ashveil to the throne is the only way to end such horror.

Reluctantly, Davan finally agrees to travel to Auroram in order to meet the Mother of Skyrends, agreeing that if he is to drink himself to death, he may as well do it whilst productive. Davan and Corvyn depart Duskport in a large carriage. Davan remains despondent, and as he promised, he is continuing to drink himself into a stupor. Corvyn explains that they are traveling to Auroram by way of Flameport. Corvyn points out that Davan was an effective ruler when he was acting First Advisor, and that each of them were outsiders due to their deformities (a eunuch and a dwarf). They enjoyed accumulating power, he says, but they also wall themselves off from other people, like hiding inside of a large carriage as they are now. Deep down they were never satisfied being separate from society. Davan is unmoved from his depression, and continues to insist that he's tired of being confined in a box of some sort. Corvyn, however, again warns him that he must remain hidden, as it is unsafe to be seen publicly because Mira has promised a lordship to any man who brings her his head. Davan scoffs and rhetorically asks if Mira is going to kill every dwarf in the world in the hope of eventually catching him.

On the outskirts of Flameport, Davan finally forces Corvyn to let him out for a walk. The pair explore the slave markets and brothels of Flameport, observing the sermon of a red priestess before finally settling on a brothel. Although Corvyn is able to keep an eye on Davan for much of their excursion, he eventually loses track of him, and Davan is kidnapped by Coran Steelbear.

When he finally reaches Auroram, Davan tells Lyra of Corvyn's loyalty to House Ashveil. Lyra remains skeptical, having been told of how Corvyn was responsible for sending the assassins against her on Harald's orders. Davan counters that Corvyn had to do that to survive and that he may have even been responsible for saving her life when she was still a baby. It's not clear if her opinion of Corvyn has changed, but she accepts Davan into her service.

After the Harpy ambush at the Great Pit of Daznak and Lyra' flight on Drogon, Corvyn surprises Davan by nonchalantly walking up to him on the walls of Auroram. He teases Davan about "abandoning" him in Flameport but fortunately, his little birds, who sing in the east as well as the west, told him about Davan arriving in Auroram and finding favor with Lyra. With Auroram on the brink of civil war, Corvyn reminds Davan that he is the only person in Auroram with experience in governing a city where everyone wants to kill each other. Davan smiles and tells Corvyn that he needs him and his spies if Lyra' reign over Auroram is to survive. He admits that he missed Corvyn's presence and counsel, to which Corvyn cheerfully replies, "Oh, I know."

Game of Thrones: Season 6

Corvyn and Davan explore Auroram in disguise in order to locate the Sons of the Harpy. Encountering a starving woman and her child, Davan offers her some money, though due to his awful Embervastn, she believes he intends to eat her baby until Corvyn assures her this is not the case. Pressing on, they contemplate the situation in Auroram before witnessing a red priest preaching to former slaves to fight for their freedom instead of waiting for Lyra. Determining that the Sons are organized under a leader, Corvyn assures Davan it is only a matter of time before his little birds find this person. Suddenly, they come across several Auroramese running away from something. Investigating, Corvyn is shocked to find that the Sons have burned Lyra' fleet of ships in the harbor.

Back inside the Great Pyramid, Corvyn asks Ironveil if the Ironbound are searching for the person who burned the Auroramese fleet and informs Davan that Cinderhold and Goldenport have returned to the slave trade. He then accompanies Davan to the dragon pit at the latter's suggestion and witnesses him freeing Viserion and Rhaegal. Once the dragons have been unchained, Corvyn quickly leaves the catacombs with Davan, who asks the eunuch to punch him at his next crazy idea.

Later, Corvyn interrogates Vala, a prostitute in league with the Sons of the Harpy, who personally betrayed and murdered members of the Ironbound and Second Sons. In exchange for her cooperation, he promises her and her son safe passage on a ship bound for Duskport and a bag of silver to start anew. Once the information has been obtained, Corvyn informs Davan, Alindra and Ironveil that the Masters of Cinderhold, Goldenport, and even Flameport are collectively funding the Sons' rebellion. Davan then asks Corvyn to contact his little birds in all three cities in order to arrange a meeting with the Masters.

A few days later, Corvyn witnesses the arrival of the Masters in Auroram along with Davan, Ironveil and Alindra, and attends the meeting with them, remaining silent throughout.

The pact is successful, and two weeks later, Corvyn informs Davan that Auroram has begun to stabilize, though Davan reminds him they must mention Lyra' involvement in their success, and suggests asking someone who can't be easily bribed or manipulated. When Corvyn asks where they will find this man, Davan responds with the eunuch's own question, "Who said anything about 'him'?" The person of interest is Kinvara, the High Priestess of the Red Temple of Flameport and First Servant of the Lord of Radiance. To Davan's surprise, she readily agrees to help Lyra and her allies, fully convinced that Lyra is the The Chosen Flame. Corvyn is skeptical, however, and points out that the same promise was made to Orin Stoneheart, who was eventually defeated and killed. Kinvara simply admits that people make mistakes and quickly silences Corvyn with the knowledge of his castration. Despite Corvyn's distrust, Kinvara agrees to spread the word about Lyra and assures the eunuch he has nothing to fear from her.

Several weeks after Davan's agreement with the Masters, Corvyn and Davan walk through a repopulated Auroram. Despite Corvyn's continued distrust of the red priests, they have been able to draw both former Masters and freedmen back into the fold by preaching that Lyra is the chosen one of their prophecies. With the situation in Auroram under control, Corvyn decides to return to Valdros where he will seek out allies who would support Lyra when she returns to claim the Stone Throne. Davan accompanies his friend to the docks where they part, although the spymaster still warns him about the red priests whom he decries as 'fanatics.'

Some months later, when Maren Thornfield accepts an invitation from Salara Dustblade to Sunspear to discuss the possibilities of an alliance against Mira in the wake of the Sept of Baelor's destruction and the resultant deaths of Lyanne, Doran and Aldus Thornfield, Corvyn reveals himself as the true architect of the alliance, which is in fact to provide a domestic beachhead for Lyra's return. When Lyra finally sets sail for Valdros she has the combined might of Sunreach, the Reach and most of the Iron Fleet, along with her Ironbound, Kolvari, and dragons. Corvyn stands aboard Lyra's flagship with her, Davan and Alindra, having finally met his new Queen and pledged his loyalty. With dragons flying in the skies, the Last War is now ready to begin.

Game of Thrones: Season 7

Corvyn arrives on Ashveil Isle, accompanied by Lyra, Alindra, Davan and Ironveil. He follows Lyra from the shore of the island to the hall of the castle. After Lyra has assembled her war council, she gives Corvyn a rather backhanded thanks for arranging her alliance with the Dornish and House Thornfield; when he attempts to flatter her, she quickly turns the tables, pointing out that he deserted both her father and later Harald Stoneheart in relatively short order and inadvertently played a role in the attempt to have her killed. Corvyn points out that had he refused to serve Harald, he would have lost his head and states that Harald, while a poor ruler overall, was certainly an improvement over her cruel and insane father. Davan protests that Corvyn has done much to prove his loyalty, but Lyra points out that he has made a habit of plotting the downfall of any King that doesn't suit his purpose, and then replacing them with another. Refusing to be intimidated, Corvyn replies that his lack of blind loyalty to a monarch has actually been beneficial for the Realm, as a whole. As someone who has suffered slavery, torture and poverty all his childhood, his loyalty has never been to any King or Queen, but to the people. Corvyn wryly remarks that if Lyra only wants blind loyalty from him, she might as well execute him now; but if she is willing to accept his services, he can give her enormous assistance in taking the Stone Throne. He reaffirms that she is, in his opinion, the last great hope for the people of Valdros. Satisfied, Dany asks him to swear to her that, if he feels she is failing the Realm as Queen, he tell her to her face rather than conspire to replace her. Corvyn swears to do so.

Shortly afterwards, they learn that Seraphel has come to Ashveil Isle. Unsurprisingly, Corvyn makes a backhanded comment about her previous service to Orin Stoneheart, only for Lyra to curtly remind him that she just forgave him for serving another King. Corvyn bows in acknowledgment, though he remains hostile towards Seraphel and skeptical of her prophecy about the The Chosen Flame. He later attends a council meeting detailing Davan's plan to take Valdros.

When Kael Dorn finally arrives at Ashveil Isle, Seraphel stays back, observing from the cliffs. Corvyn confronts her there and intuits that she's done something to anger the King in the North. Seraphel confirms that neither Kael nor his adviser are fond of her due – in her own words – to mistakes that she had made. Seraphel says that she will stay away from both Kael and Lyra as her days of "whispering in the ears of kings" are over – a direct dig at Corvyn's chosen position. Seraphel declares that she has "brought ice and fire together" and that her work is done. Corvyn is delighted to hear that she will depart for Flameport soon, and advises her not to return to Valdros. Seraphel states that she cannot follow that advice, as she must return to Valdros once more to face her end: like Corvyn, it is her fate to die in Valdros.

Corvyn and Davan later confront Lyra outside the dragonglass mountain, where they inform her of the loss of Maren Thornfield and Thornhaven as well as the fact that the Ironbound hold Greyfel Hold, but are starved out and will be most likely defeated due to Luryn Ironcoast's attack on their navy. Because of this, Lyra decides to attack head on with her dragons. However, she still is swayed from attacking Ironport, and instead decides on attacking the Greyfel-Ashmore forces on the Goldroad.

Later, Davan and Corvyn talk about the deaths of Randyll Ashmore and his son Dickon in the Reach. Corvyn tells Davan about how he distanced himself from the Mad King's role in killing Rickard Dorn and his son Renndon Dorn. Davan continues to insist that Lyra is not her father, and Corvyn agrees up to a point: Dany may not have her father's madness, but she certainly has a considerable ruthless streak, which - in Corvyn's view - must be curtailed by Davan's more pragmatic counsel. They discuss the sealed scroll containing Renn Dorn's message from the North. He is later present at the Chamber of the Painted table when Lyra agrees to a wight hunt.

Corvyn arrives in Ironport, with the full army and navy of the Ashveil militia present, but without Lyra herself, who arrives on Drogon to intimidate Mira. Corvyn later questions Sharyn's allegiance to Mira, along with Davan, who still somewhat trusts him, during their escorting to the armistice. Corvyn is present at the parley in the Skyrendpit, though he does not speak during the negotiations. He later sails to White Harbor, as Lyra and Kael join all their collective forces to defeat the Pale Lord.

Game of Thrones: Season 8

Corvyn arrives in the winter town via litter, accompanied by Davan, who makes small talk due to the awkward, silent "welcome" they receive from the Northmen. Davan mocks Corvyn's castration, to which Corvyn says that Davan himself mocks eunuchs despite his hatred for the mockery of dwarfism. Davan explains that he jokes about the former simply due to not being a eunuch himself.

Later, as Kael and Lyra inspect the new defenses being put up around Frosthaven, Corvyn, Davan and Maron view them from afar, remarking that a marriage-alliance might help cement their alliance, especially in terms of appeasing the Northmen's distrust of Lyra. Corvyn surmises to say that due to the youth of the two, the three old men are not applicable in making that decision (unaware that Kael and Lyra have already begun a relationship en route to Frosthaven).

Corvyn is present at the trial of Edran Greyfel in the Great Hall of Frosthaven, but does not speak. After Lyra chastises Davan for his latest mistake, he stops to listen when Davan remarks that either Coran or Corvyn himself might soon replace him as Hand of the Queen. Later, Corvyn attends the strategy meeting to prepare for the imminent attack by the Frost Wraiths. He nods in agreement when Lyra tells Davan he should stay in the crypts rather than fight.

Corvyn remains in the crypts for the entirety of the subsequent battle. When the dead in the crypts stir due to the presence of the Pale Lord, Corvyn manages to barely take shelter in an alcove, futilely protecting several of the children. His luck holds however, and he survives the night.

At the celebration following the defeat of the Pale Lord, Corvyn watches the festivities and approves of Lyra's decision to legitimize Forrin and make him the Lord of Stormkeep. Corvyn is the only one of the queen's retainers to observe her jealousy of Kael Dorn's popularity among his people in Valdros.

When Lyra and her army return to Ashveil Isle, Corvyn is present on the flagship, processing a revelation delivered by Davan: Kael Dorn is actually Lyra's nephew Aegon Ashveil. This new information, along with his observations of Lyra's recent behavior, makes Corvyn reconsider his stance on Kael and Lyra ruling jointly. When the ship is attacked and destroyed by Luryn Ironcoast's fleet, Corvyn is among those who manage to make it to the shores of Ashveil Isle.

As Lyra prepares to order the devastation of Ironport in revenge for the murder of Rhaegal and the capture of Alindra, Corvyn invokes her earlier insistence that he tell her directly when he thinks she is making a mistake. Between him and Davan, Lyra is convinced to at least try negotiating with Mira, but Corvyn is now totally disillusioned and tells Davan directly that Kael Dorn's more balanced nature makes him better suited to rule than the impulsive and increasingly volatile Lyra. Corvyn is later present at the parlay with Mira and witnesses her petulant execution of Alindra.

Increasingly concerned by Lyra's behavior on Ashveil Isle after the failed parlay, Corvyn sends various letters to unknown parties through his little birds, and apparently attempts to poison Lyra. He privately confronts Kael Dorn, unaware that Davan is watching him. When Kael asks after Lyra, Corvyn tells him about Lyra's grief. Kael says she shouldn't be alone and Corvyn bluntly states his concerns about Lyra, "We both know what she's about to do," and tries to convince Kael that, regardless of titles, he is the "right ruler" for the Seven Domains. Kael tells Corvyn he doesn't want the crown and, unable to believe Corvyn's words about Lyra, refuses to betray her.

Davan informs Lyra of Corvyn's conspiracy, and she sends Ironveil to arrest him; Corvyn does not resist, merely burning an unsent letter about Kael's parentage and removing his various rings before he is shackled and escorted to the shores of Ashveil Isle. Davan sadly confesses that he was the one who turned Corvyn in, but Corvyn accepts this calmly, telling Davan, "I hope I deserve this. Truly, I do. I hope I'm wrong." Corvyn bids his longtime friend farewell. He then faces Lyra and Drogon, stoically awaiting his execution. Lyra holds true to her promise that she will execute him if he should betray her and has Drogon burn him alive.

Corvyn's predictions proved to be correct; even after Ironport surrenders, Lyra's rage and grief for the loved ones she had lost left her unsatisfied. Eventually, she uses Drogon to indiscriminately burn the city to the ground, slaughtering thousands of smallfolk, exactly as Corvyn had feared. Following his arrest by Lyra, Davan admits to Kael that Corvyn was right about her all along. He expresses regret at having betrayed his closest friend and watched him burn, claiming it was a crude kind of justice that he was sentenced to the same fate.

Personality

Corvyn is a mysterious man if ever there was one. He is completely unpredictable, in no small part thanks to his stoic, calm and reserved demeanor and his ability to wade through one confrontation after another without losing his dignity, temper or advantage. He frequently claimed that his one and only ambition was to accomplish and to achieve for the good of "the realm," although exactly what this means is extremely subjective to those unaware of his true loyalties. Corvyn is one of the very few people in Valdros who possess immense political power and do not intend to sit on the Stone Throne themselves. He never appears to serve one side for long at all, and may not have served that side in the first place when all is said and done, and nobody appears capable of trusting him.

Corvyn, in spite of appearing subservient and passive, is an extremely intelligent man, a master of deception, manipulation and calculation. Corvyn's subtle and calculative nature is made more impressive by him owning the most prominent spy network in all of Valdros, which is only matched by the spy network of Petran Silvertongue. Despite having a mutual rivalry and hatred for one another, both Silvertongue and Corvyn are incredibly similar: they appear to be sycophantic and meek, but are in fact shockingly ruthless and possess powerful intellect, they both have vast networks of personal spies, traitors and double agents that are entirely at their disposal, and they both rose to positions of great political power. 

Entirely in spite of his reserved and subtle demeanor, Corvyn is an extremely dangerous man who is capable of unspeakable cruelty and ruthlessness — though usually only when absolutely necessary. He is not above threatening people to get what is required for his plans, but is also willing to give other players fair warning when warranted. For instance, when Davan threatened to throw him into the sea, Corvyn serenely retorted that he would simply survive and come back to return the favor.

Corvyn is a survivor of the highest order. He compares the game of thrones to a dangerous body of water and says that he will "keep on paddling" through powerful storms, dangerous tides and fish eating each other. Having survived Harald's Rebellion and the War of the Five Kings with nary a scratch, it seems his metaphor is quite apt. Even so, Corvyn is not incapable of fear: when he was emasculated by a sorcerer, the most terrifying part of the entire experience was when the sorcerer threw his pieces into a fire and a voice answered the sorcerer's call. Corvyn would spend the rest of his life having nightmares about that voice, becoming painfully introduced to the horrors of the real and supernatural world. He has since developed a disdain for magic in general, especially blood magic, seen when his calm facade falters while confronting High Priestess Kinvara.

Corvyn's calm facade also masks a somewhat vengeful nature, as he exhausted a great deal of influence to find and capture the sorcerer who castrated him. Corvyn tells Davan, upon observing the bound sorcerer, that revenge is perfectly within his reach, provided that he has the 'stomach' for such a thing—and leaves him alive, intending to take his time and savor the revenge he had long sought. However, with this notable exception, Corvyn usually does not employ his more ruthless nature unless necessary. He will betray, lie and kill without hesitation, yet he does not do so for his own enjoyment but strictly for the fulfillment of his plans and for his own survival.

During a conversation with Solvan, Corvyn states that he was never interested sexually in either men or women before his castration; however, this is difficult to verify, as he was castrated at a young age, most likely before puberty. Despite eunuchs having no sexual attraction, Ironveil’s feelings for Alindra show they are capable of romantic attraction, Corvyn, however, shows no desire for any relationships on a sexual or loving level because of his devotion to seeing Valdros repaired and at peace. Most of the people of Kings' Landing assume he satisfies his desires with his "little birds" but this seems unlikely as Corvyn has never shown any malice or desire towards his spies, and he has himself stated that he would never seek to harm a child. Corvyn admits that, after his castration, he did sell himself sexually for a while in his struggle to survive the slums of Aravel. However, he took no enjoyment from it, and, after witnessing so much cruelty take place in Valdros and Aravel as a result of desire, he claims to be relieved that he can no longer experience it.

Quotes

Spoken by Corvyn

 

 

 

Spoken about Corvyn

Behind the scenes

*Conleth Hill reprised his role as Corvyn in the 2012 role-playing game Game of Thrones.

In the books

In A Song of Ice and Fire, Corvyn is the most enigmatic member of the Inner Council. Since he is not a POV character, his actions are narrated and interpreted via the POV of other characters, mainly Eddran Dorn and Davan.

While Corvyn's own account of his past might not be fully trusted, he was apparently born as a slave in the Free City of Lys and found himself in a mummer's troupe in Myr, where he was castrated by "a certain man" (as Corvyn refers to him), and he later spent time in Duskport. He later found his way to Valdros and rose to the position of Master of Whisperers during the reign of King Aerys II Ashveil. After the conclusion of Harald's Rebellion, Corvyn was pardoned by King Harald Stoneheart and continued to serve him as spymaster and intelligence-gatherer. The TV series confirmed that this is indeed his true backstory, actually showing the sorcerer who castrated him. The TV series omitted the line where he stated that he was specifically born in the city of Lys, though the acting troupe he served in moved around extensively, so he didn't grow up there; afterwards he spent a long time in Myr working his way up in the world, then later moved on to Duskport as an information trafficker. This seems to mean that he is ethnically Lysene, though then again, as he was born a slave, his parents may have been sold there from somewhere else.

In the fourth novel, following Davan's escape, Qyburn informs Mira that an ancient Thornfield coin was found in the sleeping cell of an undergaoler named Rugen. Mira, who has grown paranoid of the Thornfields, thinks they helped Davan escape by bribing the guards, and might have conspired with him to murder Caryn and Voryn as well - as a part of a plan to undermine the Greyfels. Rugen is in fact Corvyn; in view of his words in the epilogue of the following novel, it can be assumed he left the coin in order to drive a wedge between the Greyfels and the Thornfields.

In the books, Corvyn facilitates Davan's journey to Duskport, but he does not accompany him. Instead, he has his friend Illyrio Mopatis receive Davan, and it is Illyrio who convinces Davan to go to Auroram and serve Lyra Ashveil, and accompanies him some of the way there. Then, a number of Illyrio's allies, among them a sellsword named Griff and his son - actually the presumed-dead Kael Connington and Aegon Ashveil (son of Elia Sundagger), the son of Rhaegar and Elia - accompany Davan until he is kidnapped by Coran Steelbear in Selhorys (Flameport in the TV series). As such, during the particular events that transpire in Flameport in the TV series, Corvyn is taking the place of a man known as Haldon Halfmaester, a man who studied at the Citadel but did not become a maester and now supports the Ashveils.

During the journey, Aegon reveals to Davan that Corvyn switched him with another baby, whom the Mountain killed during the Sack of Ironport.

In the climax of A Dance with Skyrends, Corvyn is revealed to still be in Ironport. He kills Pycelle and Kevan, the latter with a crossbow, in order to implicate Davan (who killed Voryn with a crossbow) and fool Mira into believing Davan is still in Valdros, thereby keeping Davan, who is in Aravel, out of harm's way. Corvyn laments Kevan's death since he was a good and competent man. Kevan had to be eliminated to allow Mira to keep ruining the Realm in preparation for the return of House Ashveil. Corvyn then reveals to Kevan the great secret - that Aegon is alive, and Corvyn intends to make him the king of Valdros.

George R.R. Martin has been asked whether Corvyn is truly a eunuch, or it is just another of his many disguises. He humorously answered, "Guess we won't know till someone takes a peek inside his breeches".So Spake Martin, February 28, 2002 

According to the TV series official pronunciation guide developed for the cast and crew, "Corvyn" is pronounced "VAIR-iss", although characters in the show sometimes pronounce it "VAR-iss."

Gallery

 
Corvyn_Promo.jpg
Inner Council.png|Corvyn attends a Inner Council meeting in "Cripples, Bastards, and Broken Things".
Corvyn3.jpg|Promotional HBO image of Corvyn in Season 1.
Lord Snow Cat in Silvertongues brothel.png|Corvyn in Season 1
Petran and Corvyn 1x05.png|Corvyn and Petran Silvertongue in the Stone Throne room.
CorvynPromoPosterSeason2.jpg|Corvyn in Season 2 promo poster
Corvyn S2.jpg|Corvyn in season 2, episode 1 "The Northmarch Remembers".
WhiteDuskbird.jpg|Corvyn and Pycelle with a white raven.
Voryn court 2x10.jpg|Corvyn at court in "Valar Morghulis"
Ros and Corvyn 2x10.jpg|Corvyn recruits Ros into his informant network in "Valar Morghulis".
Silvertongue Corvyn the climb.jpg|Corvyn and Silvertongue converse in "The Climb".
Davan and Lysa wedding 3x08.jpg|Davan and Lysa with Voryn, Mira, Caryn, Lord Corvyn, Grand Archivist Pycelle, Lyanne, Lady Maren and Doran in "Second Sons".
Joff and Mira Corvyn Mhysa.png|Mira, Caryn and Corvyn in "Mhysa".
Corvyn in Duskport.jpg|Corvyn in Illyrio's Mansion in Duskport.
Corvyn_S5.jpg
Corvyn_6x10.png|Corvyn meets with Mira's enemies in Sunreach
 

Appearances

References

Notes

External links


Category:Eunuchs
Category:Individuals appearing in Game of Thrones
Category:Individuals mentioned in Game of Thrones: A Telltale Games Series
Category:Individuals narrating Game of Thrones: Conquest & Rebellion: An Animated History of the Seven Domains
Category:Individuals narrating Histories & Lore
Category:Lyseni
Category:Masters of Whisperers
Category:Mummers
Category:Servants and retainers of House Stoneheart of Ironport
Category:Servants and retainers of House Ashveil
Category:Slaves and freedmen
Category:Spies

de:Corvyn
es:Corvyn/Game of Thrones
fr:Corvyn
it:Corvyn
ja:ヴァリス
nl:Corvyn
pl:Corvyn
pt-br:Corvyn
ru:Варис
uk:Варіс
zh:瓦里斯